,0
333,"['Far-right Turkish leader Umit Ozdag has endorsed opposition candidate Kemal Kilicdaroglu for the Turkish presidency.', 'The opposition challenger is running against Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the 28 May presidential run-off.', 'Mr Ozdag said they had agreed on a plan to send millions of migrants back to their countries within a year.', ""President Erdogan is favourite to win Sunday's vote, having won almost half the vote in the first round."", 'Mr Ozdag, who leads the Victory Party, said he had held similar talks with Mr Erdogan, but decided against endorsing him because his plans did not involve repatriating migrants.', 'His decision contrasts sharply with that of his ultranationalist ally, Sinan Ogan, who won nearly 2.8 million votes as third candidate for the presidency and earlier this week pledged his support for President Erdogan.', 'Turkey hosts the most refugees in the world, with 3.5 million Syrians under temporary protection. But many Syrians are living there unofficially and irregular migrants have also arrived from Afghanistan, Iran and Pakistan.', 'In the run-up to the second round, Mr Kilicdaroglu has doubled down on his pledge to send Syrians home within two years, and he has accused President Erdogan of letting 10 million refugees in. Mr Erdogan has promised to accelerate the voluntary repatriation one million Syrians.', 'Mr Kilicdaroglu was chosen to run for president by an alliance of six opposition parties, but fell 2.5 million votes short of Mr Erdogan on 14 May and needs to attract voters who either backed Sinan Ogan in the first round or did not vote at all.', 'Mr Ozdag said he had agreed a seven-point plan with the opposition challenger that involved sending back all ""refugees and fugitives"", especially Syrians, to their home countries within a year - ""in line with international law and human rights"". He said Turkey\'s biggest problem was ""13 million refugees and fugitives"".', 'Prof Murat Erdogan, who runs the Syrians Barometer, has estimated there are at most six million refugees and irregular migrants in Turkey.', ""Mr Erdogan's AK Party has been in power since November 2002, and he has ruled Turkey since 2003, first as prime minister and later as president."", 'After a failed coup in 2016 he cracked down on dissent, detaining tens of thousands of people, and revamped the presidency as a more authoritarian role with sweeping powers.', ""Mr Kilicdaroglu's allies had been confident of unseating the president with a promise to hand powers back to parliament, but he faces an uphill task in overturning Mr Erdogan's first-round lead. "", 'He is also backed by the main pro-Kurdish party which makes up 10% of the vote. ', 'As part of the agreement with the far-right Victory Party leader, the six-party Nation Alliance is said to have approved a deal saying that all ""terrorist organisations will be fought"", including the Kurdish militant group PKK.', ""That could affect Mr Kilicdaroglu's bid for Kurdish voters to give him their support.""]"
334,"['Hundreds attended the festival of music and culture in Avenham Park', 'Organisers of a Preston festival celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Empire Windrush vessel\'s arrival in the UK say they wanted to thank people for ""being so brave for coming over"".', 'The ship brought hundreds of passengers from various Caribbean islands to help fill post-war labour shortages in 1948, external.', 'Organiser Carol Harris said: ""We wanted to say thank you and look at this wonderful community we\'ve got now.""', 'Hundreds attended the event in Avenham Park.', 'Co-founder Adrian Murrell said: ""Preston had a huge West Indian community back in the 1950s and I just think it\'s only right that we acknowledge what they went through - that\'s why the festival started.""', 'The anniversary is being marked by exhibitions, events and a new set of stamps', 'The HMT Empire Windrush, external vessel docked in Tilbury, Essex, on 22 June 1948, with passengers from the Caribbean along with a number of Polish travellers.', 'People from the Caribbean had been encouraged by the 1948 British Nationality Act that granted citizenship in the UK to all members of the British Empire.', 'However, in 2018, the UK government apologised after it emerged they had not properly recorded the details of those allowed to stay in the UK, which had led to the wrongful deportation of many.', 'HMT Empire Windrush arrived at Tilbury in 1948']"
335,"[""Vice-President Kamala Harris became the Democratic Party's nominee for president relatively late in the 2024 contest - having replaced Joe Biden - and she then selected Minnesota Governor Tim Walz as her running mate. "", 'She released a detailed policy guide, external in early September offering voters a sense of what a Harris-Walz administration might look like. ', 'This focuses on her economic and foreign policy agenda, and highlights her most urgent priority to tackle the cost of living. ', 'Here are her key policy pledges.', 'Who is Kamala Harris?', 'Who is Tim Walz?', 'Where Donald Trump stands on 10 key issues', 'As vice-president, Ms Harris worked with President Biden to pass major economic legislation - regularly labelled ""Bidenomics"" - which included major investments in infrastructure and green energy.', 'Growth and jobs creation have been strong but inflation and high interest rates continue to hit American wallets.', 'In her convention acceptance speech, the vice-president promised mortgage assistance for first-time homebuyers, a tax credit for parents of newborns and bans on price gouging at the grocery store to help target inflation.', 'She added that her plans would create ""an opportunity economy where everyone has a chance to compete and a chance to succeed"".', 'In her first interview as the Democratic nominee with CNN, Ms Harris said that one of her highest priorities was ""to support and strengthen the middle class"", a theme she has repeated on the campaign trail.', 'US election polls: Who is ahead - Harris or Trump?', 'In 2017, while a senator, Ms Harris supported a number of progressive tax programmes. She co-sponsored a bill with former presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders to expand social security for the elderly by increasing the tax rate on investments.', 'As a presidential candidate in 2019, she supported a corporate tax rate of 35%, up from 21%.', ""This was more aggressive than President Biden's proposal, which she also backed, to increase the rate to 28%."", 'During her acceptance speech after being confirmed as the Democratic candidate, she said she would ""pass a middle class tax cut that will benefit more than 100 million Americans"".', 'This refers to the restoration of the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit. Restoring the expanded Child Tax Credit would give families with newborn children a $6,000 (£4,630) tax cut. ', ""A campaign official also told the BBC that the vice-president would continue to back President Biden's proposal to not raise taxes on Americans earning less than $400,000 (£310,000). "", 'Ms Harris has long supported abortion rights. ', 'She was the first vice-president to visit an abortion clinic, and toured the country after the US Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade in 2022 to address state abortion bans - often framing the issue as a matter of personal freedom.', 'She has made abortion central to her campaign, and continues to advocate for legislation that would safeguard reproductive rights nationwide.', '“When Congress passes a law to restore reproductive freedoms, as president of the United States, I will sign it into law,” she said at a campaign rally in Atlanta, Georgia.', 'She has reiterated that commitment several times, including during the ABC News debate with Donald Trump.', ""Ms Harris's position on the border has become more moderate over time."", 'On the campaign trail, she has reiterated her continued support for the cross-party border security bill that would have included hundreds of millions of dollars for border wall construction. ', ""It was torpedoed by congressional Republicans in February 2024 at Trump's urging."", 'It would have fast-tracked decisions on asylum cases, limited humanitarian parole, and expanded the authority to deport migrants.', 'The vice-president says she would revive the bill and sign it into law. ', 'She has also said there ""should be consequences"" for people who cross the US border unlawfully, though she previously supported a more lenient approach.', 'As vice-president, she was tasked with tackling the root causes of the record numbers of Central American migrants crossing the southern border. Those numbers spiked during the Biden administration, but have declined in recent months.', 'She helped raise $3bn - largely from private companies - to fund regional investments designed to encourage residents to remain in their home countries.', ""Ms Harris's early career focused largely on domestic issues and those affecting the state of California, but she has become more involved in foreign policy since being elected to the US Senate."", 'As vice-president, she has met 150 world leaders and visited 21 countries.', ""She attended the Munich Security Conference in February 2024, where she spoke in support of western security alliance Nato and denounced Russia's invasion of Ukraine."", ""Ms Harris has vowed to support Ukraine “for as long as it takes”, and represented the US at Kyiv's “peace conference” in Switzerland in June 2024."", 'In her speech at the Democratic convention, she said she warned Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky about Russian aggression five days before the invasion, and had ""helped mobilise a global response"" after the war began. ', 'The vice-president has also pledged, if elected, to reject isolationism and ensure that ""America - not China - wins the competition for the 21st Century"".', 'Ms Harris has been a long-time advocate for a two-state solution in the region, and has called for an end to the war in Gaza.', 'In her convention acceptance speech, she pledged as president to ensure ""that Israel is secure, the hostages are released, the suffering in Gaza ends, and the Palestinian people can realize their right to dignity, security, freedom, and self-determination"".', 'As vice-president, she was one of the first people in the Biden administration to call for an ""immediate ceasefire"", raise concerns over the ""humanitarian catastrophe for Palestinians"" and charge Israel with ending the conflict. ', 'She raised these issues in what she called ""frank and constructive"" talks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu when he visited Washington in July.', 'However, she has not supported the arms embargo on Israel which some on the US left want.', 'At the party convention, she said she would ""always stand up for Israel\'s right to defend itself"".', 'She reiterated her support for the country during the debate with Trump, saying ""I have my entire career and life supported Israel and the Israeli people"".', ""In her CNN interview, Ms Harris indicated that she would focus on securing a ceasefire deal, which was President Biden's approach."", 'Earlier in her career, Ms Harris supported expanding publicly-funded healthcare programmes that cover the elderly, youth with disabilities and poor. ', 'This included backing Medicare-for-All, a progressive policy that would make all healthcare publicly funded. She later softened her support for this.', 'Her campaign told the BBC that she would not push for a single-payer system if elected to the White House. ', 'During her vice-presidency, the White House has had health care successes. It reduced prescription drug costs, capped insulin prices at $35, allowed Medicare to negotiate drug prices and capped out-of-pocket expenses for Medicare drug coverage.', 'On the campaign trail, she has said that she wants to erase billions of dollars in medical debt for Americans and would work with states on the issue.', 'Details remain thin, but when she was the California attorney general, Ms Harris regularly used anti-trust laws to put pressure on insurers, hospitals and drug companies to address costs.', ""Ms Harris started her legal career prosecuting child abusers and sex traffickers before being elected district attorney of San Francisco, and then serving as California's attorney general. "", 'She was criticised by the progressive left for increasing conviction rates - particularly of violent criminals - and was at times labelled ""a cop"" - though the right has also accused her of being soft on crime.', 'Ms Harris has also used her past as a prosecutor to serve as a major contrast with her opponent, who was convicted on 34 charges in a hush-money scheme to illegally influence the 2016 election.', ""She mentioned Mr Trump's conviction - and that he had been found liable for committing sexual abuse - in her Democratic party conference acceptance speech."", ""Ms Harris has a history of backing gun safety regulations throughout her political career. While California's attorney general, she successfully defended the state's gun laws when they faced legal challenges."", 'As vice-president, she has overseen the White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.  Earlier this year, she announced resources to support the implementation of red-flag laws, which are designed to deny firearms to those who may harm themselves and others. ', 'She also encouraged states to tap into $750m in federal funds that the Biden-Harris administration made available for crisis intervention programmes. ', 'Her policy platform includes a ban on assault weapons and high-capacity magazines as well as a requirement for universal background checks. ', 'During the debate she noted that both she and her vice-presidential nominee Tim Walz are gun owners.', 'As a prosecutor, Ms Harris defended California\'s climate laws and sued oil companies for environmental damage. She also called for climate change policies via a ""Green New Deal"" during her 2020 presidential campaign - some of which came to fruition under the current administration. ', 'During a CNN town hall in 2019, she said that ""there is no question I\'m in favour of banning fracking"", which is a technique for recovering gas and oil from shale rock that can be damaging to the environment.', 'But she has since changed her stance. During the presidential debate, she said she cast the tie-breaking vote to pass the Inflation Reduction Act - which opened up new leases for fracking companies - in addition to funnelling hundreds of billions of dollars to renewable energy and electric vehicle tax credit and rebate programs. ', '""My position is that we have got to invest in diverse sources of energy so we reduce our reliance on foreign oil,"" she said.', 'Ms Harris said she will protect public lands and public health, lower household energy costs and hold polluters accountable to secure clear air and water if elected in November, according to her policy document. ', 'SIMPLE GUIDE: Everything you need to know about the vote', 'EXPLAINER: Seven swing states that could decide the election', 'FACT CHECK: Was the US economy stronger under Biden or Trump?', 'POLLS: Who is winning the race for the White House?']"
336,"[""The project, which celebrates migration, is dedicated to JJ Keith's father, himself a first-generation immigrant"", 'Rainbow suits, yoga mats and a human boombox have all brought flashes of inspiration and colour to a photography project celebrating first-generation settlers in the UK.', 'London photographer JJ Keith has been working on the series of portraits for a year.', 'The collection is dedicated to his father, who was born in Vienna and sought refuge in the UK after the rise of the Nazis.', 'Keith\'s Portrait of a Diverse Nation, described as ""intimate pictures of successes, hardships and adventures"", examines the cultural contributions of people from across the world who have found their home in London.', 'Here, the man behind the camera describes some of the people in front of it.', 'Exhibition showcases street art and pig paintings ', 'Selfies wanted for Alexandra Palace giant artwork', 'Thames photographs reimagine historical events', 'Jama, a mental health support worker, was interviewed for his job while he was wearing a rainbow suit. The residents complimented him and when the boss saw the impact he was having, he gave Jama the job', 'Jama Elmi is from Somalia; he moved to the UK when he was eight. His father, having been ambassador to the UK, was able to migrate here with his six children fleeing the civil war.', 'When Jama started school in Chalk Farm, he found it difficult to make friends and integrate. Aged nine, he went and bought himself pink trousers and a Hawaiian shirt. All the kids came flocking.', 'In 2018, Jama was traveling on the Central line from Stratford to Queensway. He looked around and at himself, everything was black, white or grey. Exasperated by the drabness, he went straight out shopping and the passion for the power of flamboyant dressing was reignited. Jama now has between 80 and 90 colourful suit combinations.', ""His suits still play an important therapeutic role in his day-to-day work. Each resident gets to pick their favourite colour for him to wear on a chosen day and when one resident wouldn't talk any more, Jama decided to turn up in a completely 'wrong' clashing outfit. She couldn't resist commenting and soon the communication lines were reinstated."", 'Cat Alip-Douglas: ""Life, like those yoga mats, can be messy. It\'s how we allow them to unravel and unfold that enables us to make sense of the mess instead of sanitising our experience""', 'Cat Alip-Douglas moved to New York from the Philippines with her family at the age of seven. Cat speaks with a subtle soft East Coast accent.', 'Her life in metropolitan Manila was a privileged one. At the time, it was still under a dictatorship and divided into the haves and have-nots. Her parents employed domestic help, not out of desire or necessity but to aid those in need. She remembers the first morning of school in the US being laughed at by her sisters for sitting on the end of her bed with arms raised waiting to be dressed. ', 'On September 11, 2001, Cat was in the office when Flight 11 crashed into the North Tower. The focus on an upcoming work event meant she remained rooted to her desk, highlighting her ""obliviousness and self-absorption"". ', 'Like for so many, this turned out to be a wake-up call and a defining moment in her life. The yoga practice and its spiritual learnings became a lifeline.', 'Elizabeth Akalawu came to the UK 60 years ago, intending to stay for two years', 'Elizabeth Akalawu was born in Imostate, south-east Nigeria, where her parents were yam farmers.  ', ""She planned to come to the UK for two years - but 60 years later she's still here. It wasn't an easy start though; she used to cry from homesickness."", ""In the 80s as a school nurse in Brent, she discovered black parents were fearful of going to parents' evenings and disadvantaged children were suffering. So, 'Nurse Liz' went on home visits to persuade the parents to attend. It worked. School nurses across Brent then followed suit. "", 'A new era began.', 'France was ""too judgemental"" for Florent Charly Romain Bidois', 'Florent Charly Romain Bidois was born in 1986, ""just like Lady Gaga"". His parents were both cleaners for a city council near Rennes and still live where they grew up.', 'He says: ""I am different. I am a Breton through and through, I\'m a sailor, I\'m a traveller, I\'m an adventurer. I am Indiana Jones. Rennes was too small and France too judgemental.""', 'Florent initially came to London in 2011 for a pattern-cutting internship and immediately felt a sense of belonging. He also came because of his love of the English language, but quickly realised London gave him the space to develop and express himself.', 'As a child, Jai Kumari Gir delivered two of her own brothers', ""Dr Jai Kumari Gir was born in 1934 in Hyderabad, a childhood she describes as 'completely idyllic'. In a sign of things to come, she delivered two of her own brothers when her mother went into labour. "", ""They called her the 'gypsy girl' because of her incessant lust for travel and adventure and it soon became clear she wanted to make a career for herself in England, not least because she had a thing about a classy English gentleman, with a particular penchant for Roger Moore."", ""She buckled down and studied hard. It took four months to get exams results in those days as the papers were shipped back to the UK. She gained a place at Girton College, Cambridge but because of currency restrictions couldn't take it up. She continued to study in India till the restrictions eased and then took a place at West London School of Medicine (now Charing Cross Hospital) in 1956."", 'She was quick to integrate into the UK, something she believes was helped by the lightness of her skin. ', 'She ""loved necking ciders"" in and around Holland Park and Notting Hill. ', 'As a gynaecologist for many years and then a doctor in general practice, she stresses the health service in the 1960s was under the same pressure due the squeezing of resources.', 'Viveth Hardy makes commuters smile with her special gift of song', 'Viveth Hardy is ""Jamaican born and bred"". ', ""Since moving to the UK, she's been making commuters smile with her special gift of song. Why does she do it? "", 'She says: ""It warms my heart. It\'s something to do with the within. I don\'t do it because I want to sing. It\'s a spiritual thing. I can\'t control it.', '""If it comes, I have to get with it. I don\'t have any shame in my game. I be on the platform. I be on the street. I be at home. I just sing.', '""I be sleeping. I wake up in the morning with a song in my head. I just sing. I\'m like a boombox."" ', ""She's a boombox that's a bit of a legend in Kensal Rise."", ""JJ Keith's London section of Open Britain: Portrait of a Diverse Nation, external can be seen with the rest of his portfolio on his website.""]"
337,"[""A man has been given a 22-month jail term after escaping from Yarl's Wood detention centre"", 'A 26-year-old man who escaped from an immigration removal centre has been jailed for 22 months after admitting violent disorder.', ""Arnold Lleshaj went on the run after escaping from Yarl's Wood, external detention centre near Bedford in April last year."", 'Lleshaj was one of 13 men convicted as a result of the investigation into the escape.', 'Detainees had fled after a riot at the centre, which police said led to a ""nationwide manhunt"".', 'Appearing at Luton Crown Court, Lleshaj admitted escaping lawful custody, causing criminal damage and violent disorder. ', 'Bedfordshire Police said he was one of eight men in total who had now admitted escaping lawful custody.', ""Yarl's Wood, in Milton Ernest, is an immigration removal centre where people with disputed immigration status can be detained without a defined time limit."", 'It has been run by Serco since 2007.', 'In October, an inspection found the centre was ""no longer safe"".', 'A HM Inspectorate of Prisons report, external said 41% of detainees felt unsafe at some time, but there was ""little overt violence"".', 'The Home Office said it was ""committed to ensuring detention and removals are carried out with dignity and respect"".']"
338,"['Similar signage has been seen before in places including west Belfast, Belvoir and Newtownards', 'A Finaghy resident has said anti-immigrant signs in the area - including one outside his house - left him afraid to leave his home.', 'Takura Donald Makoni said he first saw the signs on Saturday, when he reported them to police.', 'The placards read: ""We have had enough of undesirables and immigrants being placed into our community.""', 'Similar signs have previously been seen in places including west Belfast, Belvoir and Newtownards.', 'The signs in Finaghy also say: ""The time has come for locals only.""', 'Mr Makoni, who works with the African & Caribbean Support Organisation in Northern Ireland, said he did not believe the views expressed on the signs were shared by the Finaghy community. ', '""I\'ve lived in Finaghy for three years now and I feel very welcome, I have made friends with neighbours and so on,"" he said.', '""So it is not that I felt the people around me, that I know, had these feelings about me, but you just feel weird.""', 'The signs were placed on lampposts', 'He said he had been tempted to remove the signs but had ""trepidation"" about who was watching. ', 'The signs remain in place four days after Mr Makoni reported them to the Police Service of Northern Ireland.', 'Police said they understood concern about ""these offensive and unacceptable posters"".', 'Anti-immigration signage a hate incident - police', 'Supt Finola Dornan said there could be no excuses for the signs.', '""Hate has a far-reaching and damaging impact on the whole community,"" she said.', '""We are committed to doing everything possible to prevent incidents, support victims and pursue perpetrators.', '""South Belfast Neighbourhood Policing Team has been working together across the local community and with partner agencies to secure a removal of these posters. ""', 'She added that patrols had been stepped up in the area to ""provide necessary reassurance"".', 'A spokesperson from the Department for Infrastructure (DfI) said: ""The Department is aware of the posters. Racist\xa0and intimidatory signs should not be erected on public infrastructure"" adding that DfI will work with the PSNI to remove the signs. ', 'A Housing Executive spokesperson said they did not believe the signs reflected the values of the local community.', '""We work proactively to promote inclusivity and diversity in our homes and estates and that is why it is particularly disappointing when incidents of this nature occur,"" the spokesperson said.', '""All our housing allocations will continue to be carried out in line with the rules of the common housing selection scheme.""', 'Social Democratic and Labour Party councillor Donal Lyons called on the Department for Infrastructure and the Department of Justice to ""take action"".', '""I think it\'s absolutely disgraceful that six months on these posters, that are nothing more than racist intimidation, are still being erected across the city,"" he said. ']"
339,"['Nella Rose questioned Nigel Farage on his attitudes towards immigration', ""Nella Rose has accused Nigel Farage of being anti-immigration on Wednesday's episode of ITV's I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!"", 'The YouTuber said the former politician wanted people like her ""gone"" from the UK whilst discussing his policies to reduce immigration.', 'Rose said she had read online that Farage was ""anti-immigrants"".', ""She also asked why black people didn't like him. "", 'Former UKIP and Brexit Party leader Farage replied by saying ""You\'d be amazed, they do,"" and Rose replied: ""So everyone hates you for no reason?""', 'Farage responded: ""You can disagree with somebody, but to chuck around accusations the way they\'ve been chucked around is grossly unfair.', '""Anti-immigrant, right? No, no, all I\'ve said is we cannot go on with the numbers coming to Britain that are coming.""', 'Whilst standing in the bath area of the camp, Rose pressed Farage on what the ""problem"" was with immigration and added that as someone who moved to the UK as a child she was ""one of those numbers"".', 'Farage, who currently works as a presenter on GB News, said the number of people entering the UK was affecting GP appointments.', ""I'm A Celeb: Viewing figures fall by two million"", ""I'm A Celebrity: This year's line-up confirmed"", 'Rose, who has one million followers on Instagram and TikTok, replied: ""I\'m stopping you getting a GP appointment? You\'re not getting an appointment because the NHS is lacking funding.', '""I bet you anything if every single immigrant or from immigrant descent was to leave the UK, all your doctors gone, most of your doctors are Asian right? Most of your nurses are African women, right?', '""You want us gone, that\'s all I understood.""', 'Farage then said Rose was not listening to him, before adding: ""We can agree to disagree.""', 'Nella Rose and Fred Sirieix had a heated conversation earlier in the week.', ""It's not the first time that Farage has been questioned on his political beliefs in the I'm A Celebrity camp. "", ""On Monday's episode he was criticised by fellow contestant, First Dates star Fred Sirieix, about a poster he used in his campaign for the UK to leave the European Union during the 2016 referendum."", 'Sirieix said it was ""shameful"", adding that Farage was ""demonising migrants"".', 'Farage replied: ""In your view it was, but it wasn\'t.""', 'Sirieix also had a disagreement with Rose earlier in the week after a row around the campfire when he was cooking.', 'Discussing his bad eyesight, he told Nella: ""I\'m 51. I\'m not 26 any more am I? I could be your dad"". ', 'Rose, who had previously told him she had lost both her parents, said the comment made her feel ""disrespected"" and despite a later apology from Sirieix, added she no longer wanted to talk to him. ', ""This year's show is attracting lower viewing figures than last year, with the injection of two new contestants hoping to provide a boost."", 'Jockey Frankie Dettori and retired professional boxer Tony Bellew were announced as late arrivals on the show on Wednesday evening.', 'It was watched by 6.18m people, which includes live viewing and some, but not all of those who streamed the episode online.']"
340,"['The body of Maynor Yassir Suazo Sandova was found on Friday', 'The collapse of the Francis Scott Key Bridge has left multiple families in the US city of Baltimore and across Latin America grieving lost loved ones. ', 'Six men - all construction workers fixing potholes on the bridge - died when they were plunged into the water after a container ship hit the bridge, causing its collapse on 26 March.', 'Two bodies were recovered a few days after the disaster, but then divers had to suspend their search due to the dangers posed by the bridge debris. A third body was recovered more than a week later.', 'A fourth body was identified in mid-April and a fifth and sixth were recovered in May.', 'The men worked for an independent, Maryland-based contracting company called Brawner Builders. All were from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras or Mexico.', 'John Huntzberry, who used to work with the firm, told the Baltimore Sun: ""These guys were friends and brothers and uncles and grandsons and nephews."" ', 'Here is what we know about them:', 'Suazo, 38, was confirmed to be among those missing by the Honduran Consulate in the US.', 'Where Baltimore bridge investigation goes now ', 'He had lived in the US for the past 18 years and was married with two children, a five-year-old daughter and an 18-year-old son, his brother told US media.', 'Carlos Suazo Sandoval described his brother as a very hard working man who had moved to the US from Honduras in search of a better life for his family.', ""He said he had dreamed of owning a small business and often donated money to a children's football league in Honduras."", ""Some of Suazo's family members paid tribute to him on social media."", '""I can\'t believe this Maynor, that Friday would be the last time I saw you,"" one woman wrote in Spanish on Facebook. ""I will always remember you."" ', ""Suazo's body was recovered by a team of divers on 5 April, more than a week after the bridge had collapsed."", 'Luna, originally from El Salvador, was identified as missing by the non-profit organisation CASA, which assists immigrant communities across the US.', '""He is a husband, a father of three, and has called Maryland his home for over 19 years,"" CASA executive director Gustavo Torres said in a statement.', 'Marvin Luna, his son, told the Washington Post that he knew his father was on the bridge overnight but did not know it had collapsed until friends called him and said: ""The bridge is gone.""', ""A former co-worker, Moises Diaz, told the BBC's US partner CBS that Luna was a kind person and a hard worker. He remembered him always sharing his food with his co-workers and friends."", 'Mr Diaz said Luna was like a brother to him.', 'His body was recovered in early May.', 'Miguel Luna is one of the six men presumed dead, according to non-profit organization Casa', ""Mynor Lopez's family confirmed that he is one of the men missing in an interview with CBS News in Baltimore."", 'His wife Isabel Franco said the 35-year-old, originally from Guatemala, moved to the US almost two decades ago. She said he was a loving father to their child and three stepchildren.', '""He had a good heart. He was a hard worker. He was always worried about his family too. He died but he was fighting for us always,"" Ms Franco said.', 'Hernandez, 35, originally from Mexico, was a father of four, according to the Baltimore Sun newspaper. ', 'People who knew him described him as a ""selfless man, devoted to his family and active in his church"". ', 'He was also described as a ""fireball"" with a big personality. ', 'Speaking about her son\'s death to NBC News, Obdulia Fuentes Ortiz said: ""I have a deep pain in my heart; I don\'t know how to describe it.""', 'She had said goodbye to him the day of the incident and asked him to be careful before he headed out to work, unaware that it would be the last time they would speak.', 'His body was one of two recovered from the Patapsco River. ', ""Officials named Castillo Cabrera, 26, as one of the six victims after his body was recovered alongside Hernandez's from a submerged pickup truck. "", 'His relatives told CNN that he moved to the US from Guatemala to pursue his dreams and help his mother. ', 'Castillo had worked at Brawner Builders for at least three years and loved his job.', '""Unfortunately, he was in a place where no one imagined what was going to happen,"" his cousin, Marlon Castillo, said.', 'The sixth victim was identified by Mexican consulate officials as Carlos Daniel Hernandez. ', 'On 14 April, he became the fourth victim recovered from the Patapsco river. ', 'Mexican Foreign Minister Alicia Bárcena said on X, formerly Twitter, that Hernandez ""represents our Mexican workers in the US."" ', 'A third Mexican national, later identified as Julio Cervantes, was one of two men who were rescued after the bridge collapsed in the early hours of Tuesday morning. ', ""At a news conference on 15 April, Mr Cervantes' lawyer told reporters that his client - who is unable to swim - was able to survive after escaping through the window of a work vehicle and clinging to debris. "", '""He fought for his life, and he survived,"" attorney Justin Miller said. ', 'Another lawyer, L Chris Stewart, said that the experience had left Mr Cervantes ""with severe mental and emotional pain and suffering"". ', 'This video can not be played', 'Watch: How a major US bridge collapsed after being struck by a ship']"
341,"['This video can not be played', 'Watch: US cancer patient ‘blessed’ after $1.3bn lottery win', ""A Laos-born immigrant battling cancer has won a massive $1.3bn (£1bn) on Powerball - America's lottery game, competition officials have revealed."", 'They say Cheng Saephan, aged 46, bought the lucky ticket for the 7 April draw in the city of Portland, in the northwest of Oregon state.', 'He chose to take his winnings as a lump sum of $422m after taxes to be shared evenly with his wife and a friend.', '""Now I can bless my family and hire a good doctor for myself,"" he said.', '""My life has been changed,"" Mr Saephan told CBS affiliate KOIN, revealing that he had prayed to God for help. ', 'He added that he now wanted to buy a dream family house, and would continue playing Powerball.', '""I might get lucky again.""', ""CBS is the BBC's media partner in America."", 'Mr Saephan - who has been undergoing chemotherapy for the past eight years - said that he, his wife and the friend had teamed up to buy more than 20 Powerball tickets for the 7 April draw.', 'The winning numbers were 22, 27, 44, 52, 69, and the red Powerball 9.', ""It was the fourth-largest jackpot in the Powerball's history, with the biggest so far being $2.04bn in 2022."", 'Powerball tickets cost $2 each and are sold in 45 US states, the District of Columbia, as well as Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands.', 'Huge billion-dollar prizes have become more common as ticket prices have been raised.', 'The game has also been tweaked, with players now choosing five numbers from one to 69 instead of from one to 59 under the previous rules.', 'Players also select the Powerball - their sixth number - from one to 26, instead of one to 35 as it was previously.', 'That decreases the chance of winning the grand prize from one in 175.2 million to one in 292.2 million.']"
342,"['Unaccompanied minors who cross the English Channel are often placed in hotels by the Home Office', 'The deputy leader of Brighton and Hove City Council has written to the immigration minister, claiming the Home Office has ""failed in its duty of care"" to asylum seeking children.', 'Sussex Police have said 76 minors housed in the city are currently missing.', ""Councillor Hannah Allbrooke said asylum seekers were placed in Brighton with only 24 hours' warning."", 'The Home Office said the welfare of minors was an ""an absolute priority.""', 'Across the country 116 children placed in hotels went missing between July 2021 and August 2022.', 'In her letter to Robert Jenrick, Green councillor Ms Allbrooke said the Home Office was attempting to ""push the blame onto local bodies"" by stating in a newspaper article that local authorities have a statutory duty to protect children.', 'She said: ""We believe this is an overt attempt to shift responsibility.', '""The Home Office has chosen to use these hotels. The Home Office has been repeatedly clear to us as a local authority that it is the responsibility of your department to care for the welfare of these children.""', 'Referring to a letter sent to previous Home Secretary Priti Patel in July 2021 calling for clarification on who is responsible for child asylum seekers, Ms Allbrooke wrote: ""Our concerns today are the same, that the department has failed in its duty of care to these children and young people.""', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: ""The wellbeing of children and minors in our care is an absolute priority.', '""Any child or minor going missing is extremely serious, and we work around the clock with the police and local authorities to urgently locate them and ensure they are safe. ', '""We are determined to stop the use of hotels for all minors. To achieve this goal, we are providing local authorities with £15,000 for every unaccompanied child they take into their care.""']"
351,"['Five women who resettled as refugees to the UK share largely unseen, personal photos revealing lives before war and conflict and how they coped during journeys of upheaval and forced displacement.', 'The women carried their photographic collections across borders, stored loosely in holdalls, kept pristine in decorative photo albums or held on digital devices. ', 'Here are a selection of the pictures on show.', 'Arafa left Sudan in the early 1990s to follow her husband, and father of her son and daughter, to Libya. They lived there as a family and had four more children together. ', 'When the 2011 uprising erupted in Libya, she fled as a single mother with six children to the Salloum refugee camp, in Egypt, where, for four years, they lived in a tent.', 'Before leaving Libya, Arafa photographed her favourite places, knowing she would never see them again. ', '""This is my personal bag,"" she says, ""my special personal bag. I kept every beautiful moment inside the bag, my photos, 20-year-old letters from my best friends and from my childhood. This is like the proof of my life.""', '""I see that photographs are very important and I respect photographers. ', '""I say that the moment you take this photo cannot come again. So capturing the photo keeps the memory alive forever."" ', 'Arafa photographed the water being delivered to the camp ', '""I made sure not to show my children that I weakened or got defeated by what we were going through,"" she says.', '""And I made sure to encourage them not to be defeated as well, to stay strong, to remain strong. ', '""Sometimes at night, when they went to sleep, I would just pray to myself. I would cry - but I would never let them know. I did the impossible, to keep them away from feeling defeated, to keep them occupied.""', ""Arafa's family was one of the last in the camp before it was dismantled. "", '""Without humans, it is like a place with no soul,"" she says. ""It is just like the war.""  ', ""Arafa's daughter was aged four when they left for Libya. "", '""I had been in the camp two years and I started work as a nurse in the pharmacy and clinic because I wanted to overcome the depression I was going through,"" Gaida says. ', '""That depression was very bad, too deep, and took me to a very hard place. I thought I would lose my mind. ', '""I thought, \'I need to stand for myself.\' I thought, \'What can I do? Maybe I have ability and skills I can use to help others.\'', '""I asked the doctor at the clinic and [said] that I want to learn first aid so I can help others in the camp. ', '""Towards the end of the fours years there, I became the main medical provider in the camp.""', 'Gaida keeps a box of photos, from before, during and in resettlement, including some recording her role as a visiting refugee ambassador at the United Nations Office at Geneva.', '""I didn\'t appear from nothing,"" she says. ""We carried our heritage with us."" ', 'Faisa calls herself a ""twice refugee"". ', 'She first fled war in Somalia in 1992, as a young girl, and again in 2006 to Syria, as a single mother with four children, where she built a new life in a country they loved and made home. ', 'In 2011, when war broke out in Syria and bombs began raining down on her street, the family fled again, moving to a number of refugee camps within the country.', ""In one of them, Faisa's daughter Sabrina took this picture. "", '""When it was Mother\'s Day in the camp, all the women, mothers and children were in the big hall,"" Faisa says. ', '""We made cake. ', '""It\'s the war - but sometimes we dance. ', '""We are dancing because we don\'t want stress. ', '""What can we do?', '""Where we go? ', '""It was war - but we don\'t stop. ', '""We cry. Just, we cry.""', 'Faisa is photographed wearing the dirac, one of the traditional Somali dresses she has worn throughout her life and journey, determinedly keeping her culture alive in resettlement. ', ""Nisreen was the driving force behind her family's decision to flee the Syrian civil war, in 2011. "", 'She used her energy and determination to keep them out of danger and seek medical treatment for her son, Abudi, who has cerebral atrophy and has had more than 16 operations. ', 'The family fled to Lebanon and Egypt, where Nisreen gave birth to their third child. ', ""Five years later, in 2018, Nisreen's husband, Nadal, and their three children were resettled to the UK."", 'Nisreen rescued numerous photo albums from Syria. ', '""After the war began in Syria, I collected all the photos in one bag,"" she says. ""So when the war started, the first thing I carried after my children was our photo bag and our memories. They were more important than my clothes and everything else. ', '""My pictures will live with my children - and when they grow up they will see the pictures of them, and their families and their children."" ', 'One of the photos in the album shows Nisreen in Syria on her wedding day. ', 'Another is the view from the rooftops of their former home in Syria. ', 'When Abudi was born, doctors told Nisreen he would not survive. ', '""I didn\'t believe him,"" she says. ', '""He wanted to live and I saw that in him. So I tried my best to make him survive - and still, he loves life. ', '""I always try to record any moment in my life. Every minute of my life I would like to keep as a memory. ', '""I thought one day he needs to see all this. Even photos of the hard times will remind me where we have been and where we are now.""', 'Shuke, an elder of the Borana people of Ethiopia, fled conflict in 1998 and sought refuge in the Kakuma refugee camp, in north-western Kenya, where she remained for 13 years, marrying Haji and giving birth to their daughter, Biftu. ', 'But when she became severely ill, Shuke and her family were resettled to the UK.', 'One photograph shows her as a young mother and businesswoman running her own village shop in Ethiopia. ', '""I am selling clothes, perfume, food like pasta macaroni. It is a big shop,"" Shuke says.', '""Why do I put this picture for my story?', '""When I die, my family will see these photos, after 10 years, 50 years…""', 'Shuke and Haji were photographed in their house in the camp. ', 'Both trained as community health workers and Shuke became a traditional-birth attendant supervisor for the International Rescue Committee.', '""I am working every month, house to house, door to door, in the camp,"" she says. ', '""Thirteen years, I did not sit. At night, I did not sleep. It was a very hard life in the camp - but I helped many people, old people and children. ', '""I give immunisations, vitamins, antenatal care.""', 'In resettlement, Shuke keeps alive her traditional Oromo culture and give talks about the importance of the siinque (peace stick), an ancient symbol used by Oromo women to protect their rights. Biftu took this picture.', 'Tomorrow, an exhibition and exploration of ownership of representation and memory of forced displacement, can be seen at The Ferens, external, Hull, until 27 September, an IWM (Imperial War Museum) 14-18 NOW Legacy Fund commission, in partnership with Freedom Festival Arts Trust. ']"
352,"['Lydia Higginson is lending a hand to Ukrainian refugees', 'Women who have fled the war in Ukraine have been sewing their way to a brighter future thanks to a Bristol company. ', 'The Made My Wardrobe project has supported 10 women by teaching them sewing skills at monthly workshops.', 'Founder Lydia Higginson said a sewing machine was something many of the women could not bring with them to the city.', 'Since joining the sessions Tetyana Ustich has been able to set up her own sewing business. ', 'Ms Ustich said: ""I\'m so grateful to Lydia, she was so helpful in telling me where to get a sewing machine, where to get thread, scissors and all the things I needed.', '""I had my business in Ukraine selling baby clothes and bedding and now I\'ve got it here, called Twinkle Leo, it was quite difficult to move it but people have helped.""', 'Tetyana Ustich has moved her sewing business from Ukraine to Bristol and has met Metro Mayor Dan Norris', ""Ms Ustich has been to markets in Bristol's Tobacco Factory and to some in Bath while setting up online. "", 'Ms Higginson said she met the group of women after finding out they were doing language lessons above her workshop.', '""They walked past and saw all of the sewing machines and wanted to have a go on them so I offered to let them,"" she said. ', '""A lot of them were great sewers already and would have sewn a lot in Ukraine but it\'s something they could not bring with them.', '""They all started out having different skill levels and are all now really confident and have lots of creative ideas. Its been really fun.""', ""Ms Higginson said she is really proud of Ms Ustich's business venture."", '""Tet is amazing, she is absolutely flying now - making kids clothes and pyjamas. She\'s smashing it,"" she said.', ""Ms Higginson said her workshops for the general public had funded the women's training. "", '""Were trying to get some funding to do more because at the moment we are doing it all for free,"" she added.', 'Lydia Higginson and Tetyana Ustich with Mr Norris', ""Metro Mayor Dan Norris visited the group to celebrate the women's achievements."", '""It was an absolute pleasure to meet Lydia and her team who, like so many Bristolians, have opened their arms to our Ukrainian neighbours to literally help them sew a bright future in this amazing city,"" he said.']"
353,"['Lora Arkhypenko was taken in by a Shropshire family after fleeing Kyiv', 'A Ukrainian refugee has created a documentary about the strength of women affected by the war.', 'Lora Arkhypenko and her young daughter were forced to leave their home in Kyiv following the Russian invasion in February 2022.', 'The film-making student was taken in by a family in Chirbury, Shropshire, before moving to Wales.', 'After finishing her studies, Ms Arkhypenko started work on Women, a film focusing on the strength of women affected by the conflict.', 'The director and producer said the idea for the film was inspired by her recent experiences.', '“When my life changed, my thoughts were consumed. ', '""The happenings of the world seemed insignificant, as my world – along with that of all Ukrainians – crumbled unexpectedly,"" she said.', 'Lora Arkhypenko was studying film-making when she was forced to flee Kyiv', 'After arriving in Chirbury, Ms Arkhypenko started to dwell on what people think and do when dealing with experiences similar to her own.', 'She began investigating the subject before coming up with the idea for the documentary, which she described as a story about the strength of women “who continue to move no matter what”.', '“This is a film about real emotion and real power,” she added.', 'Ms Arkhypenko, originally from Odesa, was studying for a degree in film-making in Kyiv at the time of Russia’s invasion.', 'She said she was grateful to the “kind-hearted” family from Chirbury who took her in for five months before she moved to Welshpool with her now five-year-old daughter.', 'She enrolled at Newtown College to continue her studies in the creative industry, eventually earning a Level 4 Diploma.', ""Lora Arkhypenko's film Women will have its premiere in Shropshire"", 'Ms Arkhypenko said her biggest dream was to get an Oscar, which she said would be confirmation that she was “talking about important things”. ', '“By talking about important things, you turn the world upside down, making people think about things they haven’t thought about. ', '""For a creator, this is the most important achievement,” she said.', 'The film has been supported by Shropshire Council and Robert Macey, the authority’s cabinet member for culture, said it was a chance to learn more about people affected by the ongoing conflict.', '“Lora’s experiences are unimaginable for so many of us and I am sure her documentary will prove to be both insightful and thought-provoking,” he said.', 'Women is scheduled to be screened at the Old Market Hall in Shrewsbury at 12:30 GMT on Sunday.', 'Visitors will have the opportunity to take part in a question and answer session following the film.']"
355,"[""Bradford has been a 'city of sanctuary' since 2010"", 'A festival which celebrates Bradford\'s migrant and refugee communities will be ""the most diverse so far"" when it returns in the autumn, organisers have said.', 'Tickets for the Intercultured Festival, which takes place from 21 October until 2 November, have now gone on sale. The programme includes films, poetry, food and music.', 'The 2024 edition of the festival will be the fourth since it was founded by Mussarat Rahman.', 'She said the event aimed to ""unite"" people in light of Bradford\'s status as a City of Sanctuary, which it has held since 2010.', 'Mussarat Rahman founded the festival to support refugee and migrant communities', 'Ms Rahman said: “We provide a creative space for the crossing over between communities and smaller ones which did not feel represented previously.', '“This year’s programme is our most diverse yet, with events spanning Pahari poetry, a Sudanese cooking class and a drumming circle.', '“We couldn’t be more excited to celebrate what makes Bradford unique, our earthy character and the welcome which can be found in so many different homes.”', 'A cacao ceremony using ancient practices from Aztec or Mayan cultures will be held in Bradford Cathedral', 'Highlights include a five-course supper hosted by local Palestinian cook Asil Hamadi and a cacao ceremony in Bradford Cathedral, which will combine ancient practices from Aztec or Mayan cultures to aid emotional release.', ""The festival's showpiece event, The Commoners' Ball, will be held in the Midland Hotel.  "", 'Ms Rahman added: ""It is really giving a voice and a platform to the diverse communities that we work with and that are housed in Bradford. ', '""They come from quite a wide range of countries; you\'re talking Sudan, Eritrea, Congo, Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Kurdish communities, Iran and Iraq. ', '""We\'ve got some Chinese communities in there. We’re working with the Indian and Pakistani communities.', '""And I would include the people from the eastern European communities as well. ', '""So the diversity in all of that, as you can imagine, is quite vast.""   ', ""Organiser Mussarat Rahman said the range of nationalities in Bradford is 'quite vast'"", 'Migration Yorkshire’s refugee and asylum seeker dashboard indicated that there were 7,590 people in receipt of asylum support in Yorkshire and Humberside in September 2022.', 'The local authority areas with the most people seeking asylum in dispersed accommodation were Bradford (1,342 people), Leeds (1,243), and Sheffield (1,021).', 'They are waiting for decisions on their immigration and residency status to be made by the Home Office, but in the meantime are not permitted to work or claim state benefits.']"
356,"['Abderrahim Elmuoden was caught on CCTV throwing a shopping trolley at a car with three men inside ', 'A refugee has been jailed for attacking a car and setting tyres on fire during recent disorder.', 'Abderrahim Elmuoden, 20, of Wilmslow Close in North Tyneside, pleaded guilty to racially aggravated criminal damage, violent disorder, arson and two counts of burglary following the disorder in Hull city centre on 3 August.', 'Elmuoden, who fled Morocco for a new life in the UK, was sentenced to 45 months in prison at Hull Crown Court earlier.', 'Judge John Thackray KC said the defendant\'s ""particular part"" in ""12 hours of hate-fuelled mob violence"" included attacking a car with a shopping trolley while three men inside ""feared for their lives"".', 'Elmuoden was also seen on CCTV throwing tyres on a fire outside a garage and ""left them to burn"", where nearby the judge said ""the occupants, including children, were left to cower"".', 'Prosecutor Jeremy Evans also showed footage of Elmuoden, who appeared in court with the support of an interpreter, looting the O2 and Shoezone stores.', 'In mitigation for Elmuoden, barrister Rachel Scott said he had left Morocco after his mother died in 2021, as he had no other family there.', 'She said he was ""sorry for his offending"" and ""in his own words, has ruined his life"".', 'She told the court he had been in Hull to visit his fiancée, and had been drinking before heading to meet a friend, at which point he got ""caught up"" in the disorder.', 'Mrs Scott told the court her client ""did not hold racist views"" and was now worried about his status as a refugee following the conviction. ', 'Scott Rushworth, 33, could be seen on CCTV posing with a stolen police riot shield', 'Also jailed for his part in the disorder was Scott Rushworth, 33, of Lambwath Hall Court in Hull.', 'Appearing at Hull Crown Court earlier for sentencing having previously pleaded guilty to one count of violent disorder, the court heard Rushworth had been part of of a group who attacked a police officer and took their shield.', 'Rushworth could be seen posing with the shield on CCTV footage shown in court. ', 'In mitigation for Rushworth, his defence barrister said their client was an ""excellent father"" who ""did not hold racist views"", but was ""disgusted by himself"" for the part he played in the disorder.', 'Sentencing Rushworth to 28 months in prison, Judge Thackray said the footage he had seen was ""horrifying and depressing"", and said 11 officers had been injured in the disorder - including one who had been ""permanently scarred"". ', 'The judge said Rushworth, who had a history of offending including a football banning order, was ""at one point at the front of the disorder"", and was ""in the thick of it"" when the officer was ""tackled to the ground"".', 'Rushworth also received a five-year Criminal Behaviour Order (CBO), banning him from gathering with others in a way people might find intimidating.', 'Also at Hull Crown Court earlier, several defendants who were previously handed CBOs had them removed.', 'The review came after it was highlighted to the judge that many of the defendants did not meet the criteria as their previous offending did not warrant it.', 'Judge Thackray removed five-year CBOs previously handed out to the following defendants: ', 'John Honey, 25', 'Stuart Randall, 55', 'Connor Whitely, 26', 'Jermaine Glover, 23', 'Jordan Murray, 26', 'Two defendants, David Buckle, 39, and Steven Love, 41, had their orders upheld but the date of the orders was brought back to the day they were sentenced rather than the date they leave prison.', 'One defendant, Christopher Douglas, 35, needed his order changed by Judge Bury, so a hearing was arranged for 9 September.', 'One final defendant, David Wilkinson, 46, did not appear for the hearing so will be called back at a later date for his hearing.']"
357,"['A Palestinian man lifts his T-shirt to show Israeli troops he is unarmed, during a military operation in Jenin', 'The messages come through on the Israeli phone network - scraps of information from inside Jenin’s refugee camp.', '""I don’t dare go on the roof, in case I’m shot,"" one resident says, speaking anonymously.', 'Information inside the camp is scarce, he says, and the streets are empty, as residents stay inside.', '""It’s mostly old people and children here,"" he tells me. ""The young people left before the army arrived – it’s bad luck for those who can’t get out.""', 'Jenin, the focus of news networks today, has been living through a news blackout.', 'The Palestinian phone network was down for much of the day - lines cut by the Israeli military operation here, the telecoms company said.', 'The resident I speak to says his family still has water and electricity, and that a small shop nearby was open and selling supplies, under the constant buzz of military drones.', 'As we talk, a few scattered gunshots reverberate over the rooftops from the direction of the camp.', 'UN calls for de-escalation as Israeli West Bank raids continue', '""Yes, I heard them too,"" he says. ""The sound of the drones has increased.""', 'As he is speaking, an armoured bulldozer rumbles towards one of the camp’s main entrances, the road deserted and baking in the afternoon sun.', 'For a few hours last night, explosions and gunfire erupted from the alleyways there, disrupting sleep.', 'But since then, this man says it had been largely quiet - with no sign of house-to-house searches in his neighbourhood, nor of fighters from the camp.', '""It’s abnormally quiet,"" he said.', 'The camp has been sealed off by the army since it arrived before dawn on Wednesday - part of a wide, coordinated operation across several centres of the occupied West Bank.', 'Jenin camp is a base for armed Palestinian fighters, but also unarmed civilians.  There have been fierce gun battles here in recent months, as Israeli forces have raided, again and again, looking for them.', 'Army vehicles are also stationed around two of Jenin’s main hospitals.', 'Ambulances are stopped as they approach - approaching and reversing in response to terse instructions broadcast in Arabic from loudspeakers on the army Jeeps.', 'We watched paramedics get out to open the back doors of their ambulance, to show what - or who - was inside. Two female patients were also made to get out and present themselves to soldiers in the Jeeps.', 'The Israeli army seen searching an ambulance outside a hospital in Jenin on Thursday', 'Behind them, one of Jenin’s main commercial districts is shuttered and deserted.  Cardboard boxes are scattered across the empty road; fruit sits abandoned on carts under thin cotton covers - the sickly-sweet smell of rotting mangoes fills the silent street.', 'One small grocery shop has been opening in the afternoon – an urban oasis for those who can reach it.', 'Thaeer Shana’at is stocking up on food to deliver to local families in the eastern neighbourhood, where Israeli forces were blocking access, he says.', '""The whole of the eastern area - a population of about 20,000 - is sealed off,"" he said. ', '""Only ambulances can deliver food. If we go there, we get fired at. There are many areas where we can’t deliver people any food or drink.""', 'He says his wife and baby are still in Jenin camp, as he couldn’t get them out before the army arrived.', '""They are scared to open the door,"" he says. ""A sniper is directly stationed in front of the house.""', 'Thaeer Shana’at is worried for his wife and child, who are still in the camp', 'Munir Garwan, who used to work for the municipality, is also waiting to buy food.', 'He says he was a member of the West Bank’s main political party, Fatah, and had spent six years in an Israeli jail for shooting at the army, and belonging to a ""hostile organisation"".', '""The occupation [Israel] claims it is trying to stop terrorism. But when the young men get killed, new ones take their place. They are getting nowhere like that.""', '""We are not fighting to make someone victorious over the other,"" he said. ""We are fighting for our rights.""', 'As night fell, loud explosions and gunfire were heard again from the direction of the camp.', 'Information has begun to flow again, as communication networks begin to return, circulating details of the ongoing incursion, and the identities of those injured and killed.', 'The news blackout in Jenin is ending, but the news is the last thing people here want to hear.']"
358,"['Guillaume Junior Atangana will represent the Refugee Paralympic Team', 'A sprinter who moved to Bradford from Cameroon will the flagbearer for the refugee team at the opening ceremony of the 2024 Paris Paralympic Games. ', 'Guillaume Junior Atangana, 25, who is visually impaired, will compete with his guide runner Donard Nyamjua, 32, in the 400m T11.', 'The pair represented Cameroon at the 2020 Tokyo Paralympics but sought refuge in the UK after competing in the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham. ', 'Mr Atangana, who trains at Bradford, Keighley and Skipton (BKS) Disability Athletics Club, said he was ""very moved and happy, external"" to be given the honour of carrying the team\'s flag.', 'Guillaume Junior Atangana with guide runner Donard Nyamjua (left)', 'Both athletes are students at Bradford College, where Mr Atangana studies an ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages) programme and Mr Nyamjua is completing GCSE English and Maths Entry Level 3.  ', 'The runners balance their studies with training schedules thanks in part to the support from the college.', 'Mr Atangana said: ""We come to college three times a week and attend our lectures and meet with our tutors. ', '""We receive lots of support. For me, in particular, my English skills have improved greatly, which is helping me interact better with people.”', 'Athletes in the T11 class are severely visually impaired and compete blindfolded with a guide runner.', 'Mr Atangana will also race in the 100m with his other guide, Israel Malachi-Harrison.', 'The athletes train at Bradford, Keighley and Skipton (BKS) Disability Athletics Club', 'As a child he loved playing football, but, aged eight, his vision began to deteriorate and, by 12, he had lost his sight entirely.', 'A PE teacher then urged him to focus on running due to his speed, which sparked a passion that led him to compete in Para-athletics.', '""I didn’t leave my room for several months,"" he said. ', '""I was thinking everything was finished with sports, but I made a friend who helped me, and I started running.""', 'Mr Atangana and Mr Nyamjua said they sought asylum in the UK as the situation in Cameroon was becoming more dangerous and it was impossible to pursue their athletics careers in a safe and supportive environment.', 'Together with seven other Para-athletes competing across six sports, they are part of the largest-ever Refugee Paralympic Team, hoping to build on the success of the Refugee Olympic Team.', 'The sprinters received a surprise call from the President of the International Paralympic Committee, Andrew Parsons, who asked him to carry the flag into the opening ceremony for the Refugee Paralympic Team, accompanied by his guide.', 'Their team will be the first to enter the ceremony later at the Place de la Concorde and the Champs-Elysées.']"
359,"[""Hundreds of Ukrainians fleeing Russia's 2022 invasion of the country have been hosted in Gloucestershire "", 'New homes are being sought for Ukrainian refugees fleeing the ongoing war between Ukraine and Russia.', 'South Gloucestershire Council said it would be receiving 70 new arrivals in the coming months.', 'So far, 360 residents in the area have taken in about 576 Ukrainian guests.', 'Host families receive monthly payments of £500 and council support, external.', 'This includes access to drop-in sessions and emotional support.', 'The council also supports the refugees with advice on accessing medical services, benefits, language lessons, employment and rehousing. ', 'Hosts are also connected with each other to share advice and experiences. ', 'Thornbury hosts Trevor and Eryl Daniels said: ""Our intention in hosting Ukrainians was to help a mother and child, but we never thought how much they would help us by enriching our lives. ', '""We have gained so much from the experience and established a connection for life.""', 'South Gloucestershire Council cabinet member Alison Evans said: ""We are asking now, if there are others who can step forward to offer their help, as the war is still raging, the need for places to live is still just as important.', '""There is nothing for you to pay and no demands on you other than to show kindness and a little understanding.""']"
360,"['The actor helped renovate a cottage in Watlington and is now understood to have agreed to rent it so it can be used to house refugees', 'Actor Jeremy Irons has helped to ensure a cottage in Watlington can be let out to Ukrainian refugees.', 'The BBC understands he has agreed to enter into a tenancy on the property so it can continue to be used to house families in need. ', 'The cottage and neighbouring library were left to Oxfordshire County Council (OCC) for the benefit of the people of Watlington.', 'Mr Irons, 75, helped renovate it last year to allow a Ukrainian family to move in, and has now helped to ""get round"" council concerns about entering into an official agreement.', 'The cottage and the neighbouring library were both bequeathed to the town by Charlotte Coxe', 'The property was bequeathed to the council by Charlotte Coxe in 1949.', 'A Ukrainian family has already spent more than a year in the cottage, after fleeing war in their home country.', 'But OCC was ""cautious"" about entering into an official agreement with them because of the risk of creating a ""secure tenancy"", which gives tenants the right to stay in a property for the rest of their lives.', 'The Charlotte Coxe Trust Committee, part of OCC, has now agreed to enter into a year-long tenancy with a ""named local sponsor"", understood to be The Lion King and Man in the Iron Mask star Jeremy Irons.', 'The cottage will then be sublet to Ukrainian refugees.', 'County council solicitor Richard Hodby said it was a ""positive story"".', '""Until about two years ago, 33 High Street had sat empty, unoccupied and a bit of an eyesore in Watlington\'s otherwise very attractive high street,"" he said.', '""Thanks to the generosity of the sponsor and also to the local efforts... it has been transformed into a fully-occupiable property. And it\'s enabled a refugee family from Ukraine to spend... slightly in excess of 12 months there.""', 'He said the agreement made on Thursday meant that they could ""get round"" tenancy issues.', '""Our sponsor has very kindly agreed to take the tenancy in his own name, and it will have a condition in it that he can\'t occupy the property and then that will hopefully get round the issue of creating a secure tenancy.', '""We also know our sponsor is a very well-known celebrity figure with substantial assets, and I think he would not be particularly interested in any event of taking a secure tenancy of a small little house in Watlington. ', '""So we think the risk of creating a secure tenancy is almost non-existent.""', 'The meeting was told that the Ukrainian family originally occupying the cottage has moved out, but it is hoped other refugees will move in from September.']"
361,"['A new law has come into force in Hungary which threatens to push thousands of Ukrainian refugees on to the streets or back to Ukraine.', ""The regulation restricts state support for Ukrainians to those who come from parts of Ukraine directly affected by the fighting caused by Russia's invasion. "", 'Thirteen regions in Ukraine are on the list, which will be updated monthly by the Hungarian government. ', 'It is not known how many of the 31,000 Ukrainians taking shelter in Hungary will be affected by the new law. ', 'Human rights groups say the most vulnerable are those from the Roma ethnic minority from the westernmost Transcarpathian region, who are still living in shelters which will now close. ', 'Their situation is complicated by the fact that many are dual Ukrainian-Hungarian citizens, who have been refused help elsewhere in the European Union on the grounds they are Hungarian citizens.', 'The UN refugee agency said, external the law change will mean an estimated 2,000-3,000 refugees will ""lose access to subsidised accommodation"".', '""Many face significant barriers in securing alternative housing due to lack of financial means but also reluctance of owners to rent,"" the UNHCR said.', '""For many, the change will result in job losses and impact school enrolment, jeopardizing the positive integration achievements obtained so far.""', 'Under the new law, only Ukrainians whose last official address in Ukraine was in an area ""directly affected by military operations"" remain eligible for state support, which includes free housing and a basic monthly sum. ', 'Government decree 134 changes legislation dating back to 2022 and the start of the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. ']"
362,"['Mike Vorobets started his mobile van business after fleeing Ukraine, offering haircuts and a listening ear on the Yorkshire coast', 'A barber who fled the war in Ukraine has helped to change lives by running a mobile hairdressing service and offering a listening ear.', ""Mike Vorobets fitted out his van as a travelling salon and gives free cuts to those in need, as well as visiting areas of Scarborough where people might struggle to get to a barber's."", 'He has become popular with his customers for supporting them with their mental health challenges.', 'Mr Vorobets said: ""Lots of people around the world have helped Ukrainians and I think if I can help with good haircuts, I feel very good."" ', 'Back in Ukraine, Mr Vorobets ran a successful barbering business but was forced to move, along with his four children, to Scarborough when war broke out. ', 'He wanted to use his skills to start a new life for himself and help his community, so kitted the van out with a TV and games console to entertain children.', '""I know kids often don\'t like the barbers with the seats and the noise so I thought I want to make something special where they can sit and play, meaning the children are happy, parents are happy and I\'m happy,"" he said. ', ""John Edward (pictured on left) is among the customers who've been grateful for Mr Vorobets' support "", 'As well as his usual rounds, Mr Vorobets regularly calls at The Rainbow Centre in Scarborough, which works with vulnerable people, including those with additional needs.', '""If I can help these people who have complicated lives, by cutting the price and making their lives easier with a new style, it feels nice. ', '""Money is not everything in this life and when you help people, you feel like you can do everything in this world, the feeling is amazing,"" he added. ', 'Regular customer John Edward said he enjoyed having a ""good chat"" with the barber when he was feeling lonely.', '""I suffer from anxiety and don\'t get out much to integrate with people, but it\'s nice when Mike comes to see me,"" he said. ', '""It\'s hard for some people to go to a barber shop in town - people with disabilities and children and with anxiety issues like me but this is an incredible idea where he can come to the home.""', 'Mr Vorobets said he hoped to open a training school for barbers by the end of the year and set up 10 more mobile salons in other areas of Yorkshire.', '""I like being able to make people change in front of my eyes, making them stronger, more beautiful and happier,"" he said. ']"
363,"['Rustam Wahab, 22, grew up in Essex and is the son of refugees from Afghanistan', 'Rustam Wahab is the proud son of refugees - but only a few people knew until recently.', 'His parents and older brother, who was two at the time, risked their lives in 2001 to flee war and persecution in Afghanistan and seek refuge in England.  ', ""Mr Wahab, 22, was in his mum's stomach when she made the journey to England in the hope of finding a better life. "", 'The family, who now live in London and Essex, were used to a comfortable lifestyle when they lived in central Kabul, but were catapulted into extreme poverty when they first arrived in the country.', 'Mr Wahab said: ""The first time I told people that I was a son of refugees was a year ago, so it\'s not been a long time.""', 'Mr Wahab said: ""The earliest example I have of us being very poor as a result of being an asylum seeker was when me and my older brother went to school and it was a funfair day.', '""We only had 50p [and] we didn\'t have money to go on the bouncy castle.""', 'Mr Wahab said his older brother gave him the 50p as they did not have enough money for them both to have a go.', '""One teacher saw and let us both go onto the bouncy castle, and stuff like that has stuck with me and my older brother.', '""That\'s the first time we had experienced the kindness of other people and them treating us with fairness and love.""', 'Mr Wahab said his family used to live near the presidential palace in the Afghan capital, but their life had been destroyed due to the war and left his parents with no other choice but to risk everything and flee.', 'He said: ""It was a middle class life, my dad worked from the age of 12, he helped out his dad while still going to school.', '""My dad was a really, really hard worker and he still is now, to support his family right now he is working crazy hours.', '""So the transition from middle class life to them being at the bottom of society - it was really difficult for my parents.', '""Not only did they flee war and persecution, [but] then they came to the UK and went through poverty and being dirt poor and [not being able] to afford certain stuff.', '""The people who come here illegally don\'t want to come here, they have to come here and as soon as people realise that the whole narrative on asylum seekers coming here... will change.""', 'Mr Wahab is studying for a degree in philosophy, politics and economics at Southampton University. Alongside his studies he runs an Instagram page, on which he shares videos that give an insight into events taking place across the world to more than 700,000 followers. ', 'Mr Wahab has recently focused on sharing informative videos that reference the riots that took place after disinformation was spread online about the circumstances of an attack in which three young girls were fatally stabbed in Southport. ', 'Following the disorder that followed the incident, he said: ""Of course, I have been subject to a little bit of racism and Islamophobia.', '""But seeing that with my own eyes, a mass amount of people just rioting and attacking people of colour - it made me feel frightened, scared and unwelcomed.', '""I really thought about immigrating to a different country because of it.""', 'Yet he added he found the counter-protests ""heartwarming"". ', 'Mr Wahab added: ""It just goes to show that there is a small minority who share those racist, far-right views, but the majority of the country actually want us here.""', ""However, growing up Mr Wahab said he had kept his family's history a secret."", ""Hostility was rampant towards people of colour after 9/11 and Mr Wahab's parents hoped to protect their children by telling them to hide who they were."", 'Mr Wahab said: ""The first time I told people that I was a son of refugees was a year ago, so it\'s not been a long time.""', 'He launched his Instagram page in 2019 and it started to grow quickly during 2020, but he felt his identity ""was sort of like a secret"".', '""I saw that the hate towards people of colour and refugees was getting so bad, that I thought I should share my story and the person running this account is actually a son of refugees.', '""We\'re just normal people, not a threat to anyone. We\'re just here living the same as them, paying their taxes.""', '""We sort of had to hide our identity up until maybe our teenage years, when we kind of got fed up of it and we didn\'t want to hide who we were anymore.', '""We used to say we were Pakistani or Turkish instead of saying we were Afghan.', '""It was difficult really because my parents were always quite protective and a bit ashamed because of the connotations that come with [being a] refugee as well.""', 'But now he said: ""I am pretty proud of it.""', '""My parents have worked hard to give us good decent lives after they got their British status in 2007.""', 'Moving forward he said he hoped to finish his degree and and wants to pursue a career as an MP. ', '""I do want to be an MP, I do believe that to cause real change is through Parliament.""', 'Do you have a story suggestion for Essex?']"
364,"['Friendships are made as families take part in arts and crafts', 'A group supporting people who fled the war in Ukraine are using art to help support refugees with their mental health.', 'York Ukrainian Society started offering language skills and administration support to those Ukrainians who had settled in North Yorkshire with a bi-weekly meet-up in 2022.', ""Following a request from members, the group's co-founder Maryana Mukha has started running artistic sessions."", 'The group now offers practical activities including painting, clay modelling, drama and singing, which Ms Mukha said had really helped members with their mental wellbeing.', '“We found out that they [the attendees] really feeling much better, the impact on their mental health is much nicer,"" she said.', '""When they are around friends they can just chat about anything.”', 'Maryana Mukha said she wanted to ensure those who had been forced to leave Ukraine had the best support available in the UK', 'Ms Mukha said she began the group because she wanted newcomers to have a better experience than when she arrived 11 years ago.', '“I remember when I came to this country, I wasn’t very confident with the English but that was developing more and more and I actually remembered myself that if someone had helped here I would have been further ahead."" she said.', 'The group, which is based in St Michael’s Church in Spurriergate, initially supported people with their mental  health and helped them to complete forms and register with GPs and schools.', 'Now, the group can host between 10 to 20 people or run special sessions for between 100 and 200 people.', 'Many of those who attend are women with children who find it difficult to keep their children occupied especially during the summer holidays.', 'The art sessions have proved popular with those who have never painted before', 'While English lessons have helped many participants become more independent, Ms Mukha said it was important to help them retain their Ukrainian identity.', '""The children are doing Ukrainian lessons and sometimes if they need support with some English conversations we provide this support,” Mrs Mukha said.', '“Lots of them are desperate to go back to Ukraine, they have everything there but they don’t feel safe there with small children.', '""They feel more Ukrainian in the UK because they have started to use their language.”', 'She said the art sessions helped the members feel happy and encouraged them to make friends and interact with each other.', 'Many of those who attend the sessions have young children', 'Yuliia Kiriienko has been coming to the group for six months.', '""It’s very helpful for us, we can gather together and speak to each other, share stories with each other and understand each other,"" she said.', 'It is her first time painting as she struggles to find time around looking after her six-year-old daughter Vera.', 'She said being able to bring Vera means she can spend time with other Ukrainian children.', 'York Ukrainian Society’s co-founder Maryana Mukha is a finalist in the community award category of BBC Radio York’s Make a Difference Awards.']"
365,"['Personal data was shared on Facebook groups after a data breach by Angus Council', 'Personal details of Ukrainian refugees and the families offering to house them have been exposed online in serious data breach, a council has confirmed.', 'Angus Council said it had launched an investigation after details of families in the homes for Ukraine resettlement programme were posted on two Facebook groups.   ', 'The local authority said it was contacting those affected to ""advise them of the breach, apologise and offer support"".', 'It said access to the data had now been disabled and the breach had been reported to the Information Commissioner’s Office.', 'Angus Council confirmed the breach was ""serious"" and said the investigation may be passed on to Police Scotland if appropriate.', 'Scottish families offered to support Ukrainian refugees fleeing the conflict', 'The council said in a statement:  ""Personal data from an Angus Council online test system has been released into the public domain via posts to two closed Homes for Ukraine themed Facebook groups. ', '""The council moved swiftly to disable the link once it had been made aware of the breach.""', 'It said it was still ""unclear"" how the breach happened.', 'It added: ""While the full details are still under investigation, it is understood that the data released contained personal details of prospective Ukrainian guests and their Angus-based hosts. ', '""The data was contained within a system, not a file, so was not available to be digitally exported, although it could potentially have been copied.""', 'The council said it would contact people affected directly, and anyone worried their details had been released should contact them , externalvia email.  ', 'Thousands of Ukrainians have sought shelter in Scotland since 2022, when their homeland was invaded by Russia.', ""The Scottish government's Homes for Ukraine programme aimed to provide accommodation for refugees who fled the conflict, across all of the country's council areas.""]"
366,"['Crowds of anti-racism protestors gathered in Newcastle on Saturday', 'A charity is translating the dozens of supportive messages it has received over the past week to give to asylum seekers living in temporary accommodation.', 'Andy Durma, the head of West End Refugee Service (WERS) in Newcastle, said the massive wave of support from people in the North East following the recent unrest had been ""affirming"". ', 'He said after receiving a few messages of support early last week, the team put out a call for more messages which they are now translating to give to their clients. ', '""We\'ve had over a 100 now,"" he said. ', 'The messages have come from people across the region, Mr Durma said. ', 'One message said: ""Welcome to Newcastle. I hope when things settle down you can enjoy our beautiful city. It is now your beautiful city.""', 'Another said: ""Please know you are welcome in the North East. The terrible acts in recent weeks do not reflect the views of the majority who want you to feel safe and at home."" ', 'The team at the charity has been translating the messages into languages such as Arabic and Kurdish, which are then passed on to asylum seekers living in hotels in Newcastle while they wait for their applications to be processed.', 'There are also plans to work with refugee charities in other parts of the North East so the messages can be given to people living there.', '""The positivity and solidarity we’re receiving towards our cause have been incredibly uplifting,"" Mr Durma added. ', 'Prospective well-wishers have until Friday to send in any more messages so they they can be translated, he added.']"
367,"['People were ""scared"" by the recent anti-immigrant violence, said the NGO', 'A Brighton-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) has launched a campaign aimed at welcoming refugees and asylum-seekers inside the country, following a wave of anti-immigrant unrest.', 'Conversation Over Borders (COB) has asked the public to send in messages of ""support and solidarity"" to people who have recently arrived in the UK, which it then plans to write out by hand and pass on. ', '""We wanted to drown out the hate we are seeing with love,"" said COB founder Colette Batten-Turner. ""It\'s important that wider society sends a message of compassion, solidarity and hope.""', 'More than 1,000 messages were submitted in the first 24 hours of the campaign.', '""We knew the loud voices of the racist, far right are a minority here,"" said Ms Batten-Turner. ""They really don\'t represent the majority of people in the UK.""', 'Recent unrest had left refugees and asylum seekers ""beyond terrified"", she said, with many having fled violence and discrimination in their countries of origin. ', 'Though the messages are due to be delivered next week, Ms Batten-Turner said she had already passed on several to those feeling especially distressed and isolated. ', '""It\'s amazing to see the impact they are having already. They have helped people feel calmer and more welcome.""', 'Ms Batten-Turner said the letters reflected how the people of the UK  ""truly"" felt', 'England and Northern Ireland have been gripped by the worst unrest for more than a decade, fuelled by online misinformation, the far-right and anti-immigration sentiment.', ""Some 2,000 anti-racism protestors gathered in Brighton's Queens Road on Wednesday night, following reports of looming far right protests. "", 'Around eight anti-immigration protestors showed up, according to a BBC reporter. ']"
368,"['More than 400 people have been arrested following violence in England and Northern Ireland over the weekend ', 'People in the asylum system in Scotland are living in ""constant fear"" following days of violent riots in other parts of the UK, the chief executive of the Scottish Refugee Council has said. ', 'Sabir Zazai told BBC Scotland News that some people in communities his organisation works with were scared to go out. ', 'The BBC understands some groups have planned protests and counter protests north of the border in the coming weeks. ', 'Police Scotland said any disorder will be ""identified quickly"" and ""responded to immediately"".', 'Sabir Zazai, chief executive of the Scottish Refugee Council, said people are fearful of leaving their homes ', ""The force dismissed speculation of a protest, external in Glasgow's George Square earlier. "", 'Mr Zazai spoke following a meeting with faith leaders and First Minister John Swinney at Bute House. ', 'On Tuesday, former First Minister Humza Yousaf, who is of Muslim faith, said he questions whether he and his family have a future in Scotland or the UK due to Islamophobia. ', 'Mr Zazai said there was “lots of anxiety and uncertainty” among communities the Scottish Refugee Council works with. ', '“These people are fearful already, they have fled dreadful situations,"" he said. ', '""We don’t want them to be retraumatised.”', 'The charity chief said Scotland was “fortunate” not to have seen riots but warned “nowhere is immune to racism”. ', 'He told BBC Scotland News: “Yesterday we had somebody living in an asylum hotel saying should I stay in the hotel or should I leave?', ""“We've had other people worried about their wellbeing, people not being able to travel to their appointments with their lawyers or getting advice from us and others."", '“This should all be avoided and that shouldn\'t happen, people should not feel that insecurity and fear in our streets.""', 'Local business have come under attack as supporters of anti-immigration attacks continue in Belfast', 'Counter demonstrations in Scotland have been organised after far-right activist Tommy Robinson posted about a ""pro-UK"" rally to be held in Glasgow\'s George Square next month.', 'The English Defence League founder, whose real name is Stephen Yaxley-Lennon, had earlier promoted false claims about the Southport attacker.', 'Mr Zazai said that misinformation about the violent riots ""is damaging to everyone"". ', 'The Muslim Council of Scotland said it has ""full trust"" that police protection in Scotland is strong enough following disorder elsewhere. ', 'Mr Swinney said he was “very concerned” about the riots in other parts of the UK.', 'After meeting with faith leaders and Scottish political party chiefs, the first minister said they wanted to send a message of solidarity, adding: “Violence plays no part in our society, that the Islamophobia that we’ve seen has no place in our society and that we’ve got to stand together in representing cohesive communities in Scotland.”', 'First Minister John Swinney has sought to reassure communities in Scotland ', 'Mr Swinney also met with Chief Constable Jo Farrell and Assistant Chief Constable Gary Ritchie in Edinburgh.', 'Police Scotland Assistant Chief Constable Gary Ritchie said they understood the disorder in other parts of the UK was causing concern and the force is running ""enhanced patrols and direct engagement"" to provide reassurance to communities.', '""We continue to closely monitor the situation to ensure any potential for violence or disorder in Scotland is identified quickly and responded to immediately,"" he said. ', '""We are aware of a number of potential protests, and counter protests, over the coming weeks, which will be policed appropriately but we are not going to speculate on or add publicity to individual potential events.', '""I would also encourage everyone to be responsible in their use of social media and not to share speculation or inaccurate information.""', 'More than 400 people have been arrested, and 100 have now been charged, in connection with violent scenes in towns and cities such as Rotherham, Middlesbrough and Bolton over the weekend.', 'There has been further disorder in London, Plymouth and Belfast. ', 'In Tamworth, Staffordshire, a hotel used to house people in the asylum system was targeted by rioters using petrol bombs and fireworks. ', 'The violence followed  the fatal stabbing of three girls in Southport. Subsequent unrest has been fuelled by online misinformation relating to the attacker.']"
369,"['A refugee charity has said police officers who worked during riots in Sunderland on Friday still attended community meetings the next day', 'Refugee charities are offering support to migrants while at the same time taking action to keep themselves safe during ongoing unrest.', 'Some organisations and firms with the words ""immigration"" or ""asylum"" in their names said they were worried by rumours they may be targeted.', 'A Newcastle lawyer said he had shut his office, while a north-east England charity temporarily closed its doors and cancelled planned events for asylum seekers.', '""We don\'t want to put anyone at extra risk,"" a worker at the organisation said. ', 'The charity, which asked not to be named, said volunteers had faced racial abuse on public transport.', 'They had been to a Newcastle hotel housing asylum seekers to hand out leaflets with advice about how to stay safe. ', '""People are scared,"" the worker said.', '""But we also saw some police presence – which is reassuring.""', 'A number of people have been convicted of violent disorder following the riots in Sunderland on Friday', 'Another refugee charity operating in Sunderland said people using its service were ""terrified"" following the unrest.', 'The organisation had attempted to go ahead with an event for children but concerned families had stayed away. ', 'Of the 20 children registered for the event, only one turned up.', 'However, another Northumberland refugee charity said migrants were being reassured by the support given to them by police.', ""The secretary of the charity, who the BBC is not naming for safety reasons, said officers who worked during Friday's riot in Sunderland returned to speak to the community on Saturday."", 'He said the level of support from police was something asylum seekers may not have received in their home countries.', '""People have come from situations where the police don\'t operate like that,"" he said.', '""To have the police very firmly on your side is a good experience.""', 'Residents in Sunderland took to the streets on Saturday to clear up the city', 'The unrest and abuse ""brings back the experience people have had in other countries and on their way to England,"" he added.', 'However, the charity said most people knew the riots had been carried out by a minority and not the ""ordinary decent people they come across in their daily lives"".', 'A spokesperson for the Home Office said all asylum seeker accommodation sites had security staff and it was continually reviewing their security with providers.', 'Northumbria Police Assistant Chief Constable Andrew Hill said: ""We know there will be members of the community who are feeling frightened and marginalised at this time.', '""We are here for you and we are committed to keeping you safe."" ', 'ACC Hill said a number of people had been arrested following disorder in Sunderland last week and those convicted would ""likely receive considerable sentences"".', '""This should act as a warning to anyone with the intention of causing any further disorder – you will face the full force of the law.""']"
370,"['The charity said it was concerned about safety following the disorder in places including Stoke-on-Trent where it is based', 'A centre which supports asylum seekers and refugees has shut for a few days as a result of the disorder across the UK.', 'Asha North Staffordshire said it made the decision out of concern for the safety of its users, staff and volunteers after violence broke out in towns and cities including Stoke-on-Trent, where it is based.', 'It apologised for the inconvenience caused and said it would reopen on Monday if it felt safe to do so.', '“We are sending our love to those affected by this situation and hope you all stay safe and well,” Asha said in a post on Facebook, external.', 'Two men have been charged after 10 were arrested as a result of the disorder in Stoke-on-Trent on Saturday.', 'It was one of a number of demonstrations that have turned violent across the country in recent days, triggered by the death of three girls in Southport.', 'Hotels believed to have been housing asylum seekers were targeted as part of the disorder, including the Holiday Inn Express hotel in Tamworth.', 'The director of public prosecutions has said his teams will consider seeking the extradition of social media influencers allegedly playing a role in the violent disorder from abroad.']"
371,"[""The Airoud's moved into a Gateshead Borough Council property after leaving Syria in 2020"", 'A council has said it could be years before a Syrian family, who have been granted asylum in the UK, is moved from their mouldy accommodation.', 'Hussam Airoud and his wife Marwa came to north-east England in 2020 with their son and two daughters after unrest in their home country, and were moved into a Gateshead Borough Council property.', 'Their eldest daughter, who has scoliosis of the spine and a hole in her heart, has been diagnosed with mental health problems - something the council acknowledged could improve with a house move.', 'The council said it was working with the tenant to resolve the issues at the property ""as soon as possible"".', '', ""Speaking through an interpreter, Mr Airoud said his son had developed asthma due to the two-bedroom flat's damp conditions and that his daughter's condition was more worrisome. "", ""He said a specialist psychiatrist contacted the council and told it that due to the Airouds' daughter's situation, the family must be moved to a better house."", 'In a letter written in February, Gateshead Council acknowledged the problems the Airouds were facing. ', 'It said: ""We recognise a mental health worker is advising the home is impacting [your daughter\'s] mental health and we agree this could be eased and improved by rehousing you.""', 'Mrs Airoud said her main concern was for her daughter, who has numerous health issues', 'The Airouds have been placed in a rehousing category marked as ""substantial need"".', 'However, the council warned it ""may be months or years"" before the family were rehoused.', ""Mrs Airoud, speaking through the same translator, said her children were currently staying in another family member's house nearby."", 'Alongside the damp and mould, they had a recent rat infestation, while their son had to sleep on a mattress on the floor, she said.', '""Her main concern is her family, mainly her daughter who has an issue with her spine,"" said the translator. ', '""The house is so small. It is now about a month since the kids are away, staying somewhere else. They, the kids, don\'t feel that they can stay in this house any more.""']"
372,"[""Judoka Nigara Shaheen is competing in women's judo at the 2024 Paris Olympics"", 'Nigara Shaheen’s journey to becoming an Olympic judoka did not begin with judo.', 'Instead, it began with a 30-minute karate lesson on her family’s balcony in Peshawar, Pakistan. ', 'She was 11 years old and had already been a refugee for most of her young life, having fled her native Afghanistan in 1993 with her parents as an infant, her mother carrying her as they walked two days and nights through the mountains to safety. ', 'She has faced many more obstacles to fight in the sport she loves, in between her first-ever karate lesson and competing in the Paris Olympics as part of the Refugee Olympic Team.', 'Since 2022, the 31-year-old athlete has been living and training in Toronto.', 'As a young student in Pakistan, Ms Shaheen faced harassment by older men on her way to the refugee school she attended, and bullying by her peers. ', 'In an essay in the Toronto Life magazine, external, she recalled: ""One day, an older man assaulted me and my sister. He screamed at us and pushed me to the ground. I wanted to punch and beat him, but I didn’t know how."" ', 'Her mother said she needed to learn how to defend herself. ', ""The school she attended didn't offer martial arts or other after-school activities for students - even if it had, it would often close, sometimes for weeks at a time, she told the BBC in an interview from Paris. "", ""But through her extended family, she heard about an instructor who was coaching karate at a nearby school. He couldn't train her there, but he could come to her. "", ""Soon after, Ms Shaheen was on the balcony at her aunt's home, getting coached."", 'Her mother told her the balcony was all the family had to offer “but you can use it as much as you want”, she recalled.', 'Not long after, Ms Shaheen was fighting in local karate tournaments. Her coach, noticing her talent and passion, suggested she try competing in judo. ', '“I asked him ‘what’s judo? And how would I know what to do?’ He told me: ‘Just grab your opponent and throw her, that’s it,’” she said.', 'Ms Shaheen was able to take down her first opponent in a few seconds. She had a knack for the sport.', 'While winning felt good, it was the philosophy of judo that got her hooked.', '“(My first coach) said you will not learn how to get up unless you fall. As a kid, that really motivated me,” she said. ', 'It also reminded her of watching the WWE with her father, a wrestling fan, as a child.', 'The sport gave her the confidence to find herself - and joy in her life - despite the hardships she faced as a refugee.', 'Ms Shaheen’s coaches began to notice her talent. At one point she trained with Pakistan’s national judo team but could not compete alongside them without a Pakistani passport.', 'In 2014, Ms Shaheen returned to Afghanistan, where she studied political science and public administration at the American University in Kabul.', 'She also trained with the Afghani national team, were she was welcomed by her male colleagues. ', '""Inside the gym, we were a family, and they treated me like I was their sister,"" she wrote in Toronto Life. ', 'She continued to train and compete, and began to receive a lot of attention as a female athlete in Afghanistan - some of it unwanted.', '“I faced immense cyber bullying,” she told the BBC. The harassment later turned physical.', '“There were so many times when cars would chase us,” she said. Once, someone threw a soft drink can in her mother’s direction as she was dropping her off at practice.', 'Ms Shaheen suffered a shoulder injury during her first match at the Tokyo Olympics', 'She left her home country again, in 2018. ', '“I always say that I became a refugee for a second time,” she said.', ""She moved to Russia for her master’s studies in international trade and entrepreneurship. But unlike the welcome she received at her gym in Afghanistan, she couldn't find a training partner in Russia."", 'She spent the next year training alone - a time she has called ""the worst days"" of her career. ', 'In 2019, she was approached by an International Judo Federation member, who suggested she try out for the Refugee Olympic Team. ', 'She qualified for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, but a serious shoulder injury knocked her out of the competition. ', 'By then she had finished her studies in Russia and the situation in Afghanistan had deteriorated drastically. ', '“I was just stuck,” Ms Shaheen said. ', 'She returned to Pakistan where she mostly stayed at home in fear of her safety - she had faced criticism for not wearing a headscarf during the Games - and contemplated her next steps. ']"
373,"['Thomas Westley was brought up with animals after his family opened a sanctuary', 'A Ukrainian refugee whose grandparents were killed during the Russian invasion has been awarded a bursary to pursue his dreams of becoming a vet. ', 'Thomas Westley, who had to flee his homeland, has been awarded the Fostering Compassion bursary at the University of Central Lancashire, where he is studying veterinary medicine.', 'The 21-year-old arrived in Manchester with no money and only a backpack containing his remaining possessions, and also did not speak English. ', 'Mr Westley said to be chosen for the bursary was a ""real honour"". ', 'The bursary will mean he can gain extra understanding and support during his five-year veterinary medicine and surgery degree course at the university’s Preston campus, founders of the bursary said. ', 'Mr Westley was brought up surrounded by animals after his mother opened an animal sanctuary in the small town of Zolotonosha, providing a home to more than 20 species.', 'He later moved to live with his grandparents and started a course at Vinnytsia Medical School, before Russia invaded.', '""My grandparents, who had taken control of our sanctuary, died during the initial invasion"" Mr Westley said.', '""I returned home to bury them and re-home the animals, including my beloved cat, Bonya"".', 'Mr Westley was then granted access to the UK and taken in by sponsors in Manchester. ', 'The student was then accepted on a veterinary access course at Manchester College while working alongside his studies as a cleaner.', 'Shortly after this, Mr Westley applied for an opening at the university.', 'He added: ""It has been a financially challenging year so this bursary is a huge help for me.”', 'Lesley Winton, founder of Fostering Compassion, said: “To support Thomas is a great honour for us, especially given the dreadful amount of trauma and loss he has suffered. ', '""We hope we will play a small part in helping him forge a career in the veterinary profession and as he gradually begins to rebuild his life.”']"
375,"['Anne Murray is visiting refugees around the UK, including Lara, Azad and their son Darya', 'A 74-year-old woman who volunteers at an asylum seeker charity is using her bus pass to travel the country visiting those she has helped.', 'Anne Murray supports migrants in Northumberland adapt to life in the UK.', 'She is now travelling the length and breadth of the country to meet those who have moved away from the area after being granted leave to remain.', 'Mrs Murray said the people she is visiting are like her ""extended family"".', 'Mrs Murray, who lives in Belsay, has been volunteering with Northumberland County of Sanctuary (NCOS) since 2016. It is part of the City of Sanctuary group, which supports migrants and promotes inclusivity within communities.', '""I started volunteering because I felt it was time to stand up and be counted for what I believe,"" she said. ', ""I'd heard that people seeking asylum were going to be housed in Northumberland and I wanted to find out what I could actually do to help."", '""It was one of the best decisions I have ever made.""', 'Mohammed Abdul Karim is originally from Sudan and now drives an ambulance for the Red Cross', 'Many of those Mrs Murray helped lived in Ashington and Blyth but have since moved away.', 'She is now using her bus and coach pass to visit the families in Manchester, Glasgow, Blackpool, Birmingham, Huddersfield, Stoke, Leicester, Nottingham, Surrey and London.', '""We have had people from 44 different countries come to Ashington,"" Mrs Murray said.', '""All the people I am visiting call Ashington home.""', 'One of the first people she has visited was Mohammed Abdul Karim, who in 2017 became the first migrant in Ashington to receive leave to remain.', 'He became close to Mrs Murray and her husband after he was evicted from Home Office accommodation and lived with the couple for three months while the issue was resolved. ', 'Originally from Sudan he now lives in Manchester and works as an ambulance driver for the Red Cross.', '""We are all so proud of his faith and determination to succeed,"" Mrs Murray said.', 'As part of her work with NCOS, Mrs Murray said she helped set up England language classes in churches and encouraged Ashington College to set up ESOL (English for speakers of other languages) courses.', 'The charity also helps people find clothes suitable for the UK weather, as well as pushchairs and baby clothes for expectant mothers.', 'Mrs Murray is hoping her visit will help raise awareness to the challenges migrants face when they arrive in the UK.', '""If you can put yourself in that person\'s place, all I would want is for someone to smile at me and say, \'You are welcome here. How can we help you?\'.""']"
376,"['The art is influenced by the memories and journeys of refugees and asylum seekers from all over the world', 'An exhibition of art documenting the journeys of refugees from countries like Honduras, Ukraine and Malaysia has gone on display.', 'Volunteer-run charity Cheltenham Welcomes Refugees is behind the exhibition, which includes work by professional artists.', ""The pieces are influenced by refugees' memories of home, their journeys to Cheltenham and their new lives in the UK."", 'The exhibition opened at Sixteen Gallery on 26 July, and will finish on Wednesday 31 July.', 'Volunteers from Cheltenham Welcomes Refugees organise community welcome events for those arriving in the spa town, whether they are going through the asylum system or arriving as resettled refugees.', ""Local volunteers support with English classes, children's activities, football clubs, fixing bikes, and providing lifts."", 'Volunteer Anna Ost said: ""This is a wonderful opportunity to creatively tell the stories of people who arrive in Cheltenham as refugees and asylum seekers, seeking sanctuary in our town.""', 'Various mediums have been used in the project', '""It’s brilliant to celebrate the hopefulness and determination which has led people here and that’s why the exhibition has the theme of New Chapters,"" Ms Ost added.', '""Many of the artists have overcome extremely difficult circumstances to eventually find safety here and this exhibition is a testament to many spirits soaring, creating and thriving, despite adversity.""', 'The professional artists featured include Eduardo Guerra, Oksana Fursovich, Samy Osorio Mora, Sara Rahman, Samy Osorio Mora, Tetiana Frey and Zarik Rosita Hanif. ', 'Music and food and drink from many of the cultures represented in the exhibition will also be featured during the week.']"
377,"['West Suffolk Council plays to buy accommodation to help Afghan refugees as well as local families', 'A local authority has approved plans to spend nearly £900,000 on temporary accommodation for local families and refugees.', ""West Suffolk Council's cabinet unanimously approved plans to spend £887,750 on buying up to five units, with three of them to be used for refugees."", ""The bill will be part-funded through the third round of the government's Local Authority Housing Fund (LAHF 3)."", 'Richard O\'Driscoll, cabinet member for housing, said the decision made ""economic sense"".', '""Temporary accommodation is an important provision as it enables us to respond positively to the increasing demand for help as families and individuals find themselves facing homelessness, mainly due to the cost-of-living crisis,"" he explained.', '""This makes sound economic sense as it reduces the council’s need for bed and breakfast, which is a more costly solution and also less positive for our residents.""', 'The council said the move would create savings of about £140,000 in bed-and-breakfast costs, reports the Local Democracy Reporting Service.', 'It would also provide a 4.31% return on investment after borrowing and costs.', 'Potential properties have already been identified but not yet bought.', 'The council currently owns 52 units of temporary accommodation, which are a mix of shared and self-contained accommodation.', 'The LAHF 3 funding comes with certain criteria that councils must meet. In order for the money to be used to buy temporary accommodation, at least three units of resettlement accommodation must also be included in the purchase.', 'Do you have a story suggestion for Suffolk?']"
378,"['Last month, at least 56 migrants died and 140 others were reported missing after a boat capsized in the Gulf of Aden (File photo)', 'Only four survivors have been found after a boat carrying at least 45 migrants and refugees capsized off Yemen, the UN Refugee Agency has said.', 'The vessel capsized on Wednesday night because of strong winds and overloading near the coast of Taiz province, which runs along the southern end of the Red Sea, according to a statement, external. ', 'The agency provided no further details but said it was working with its partners to assist the survivors.', 'It also said the incident highlighted the perilous journeys between Yemen and Africa.', '', 'Last month, at least 56 Somali and Ethiopian migrants died and 140 others were reported missing after a boat from Somalia capsized in the Gulf of Aden, off Yemen’s south coast. Among those who lost their lives were 31 women and six children.', 'According to the International Organization for Migration (IOM), the number of migrants arriving in Yemen from the Horn of Africa rose from about 73,000 in 2022 to more than 97,200 last year.', 'The UN agency says they are spurred by political and economic instability, alongside severe droughts and other extreme weather events, and that they are hoping to eventually reach neighbouring Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries. However, they are forced to rely on smugglers who use often dangerous and overcrowded boats for the crossings.', ""Those who make it must then traverse Yemen, where a nine-year civil war has reportedly left more than 150,000 people dead and triggered one of the world's worst humanitarian crises."", 'Before the latest capsizing, the IOM said at least 1,860 people had died or disappeared along the migration route between the East and Horn of Africa and Gulf countries since 2014, including 480 who drowned.']"
379,"['Cindy Ngamba trains at the Team GB gym at the English Institute of Sport in Sheffield', 'A boxer who fled Cameroon to the UK when she was 10 years old and who trains in Sheffield will be a flagbearer at the Paris 2024 Olympics opening ceremony.', 'Cindy Ngamba, 25, will be part of a 37-strong IOC Refugee Olympic Team attending the event on Friday.', 'Miss Ngamba does not have UK citizenship, despite calling England her home, and so will represent the refugee team at Paris 2024 instead of Team GB.', 'She said: ""I just want to tell every refugee out there, whether they are an athlete or not, to never give up.""', ""The boxing ace has made a life for herself in the UK, going to school in Bolton and gaining a degree in criminology at the town's university. "", '""The reason why I came to the UK was for a better life, a better career and greater opportunity,"" Miss Ngamba said. ', 'However, she said her passion was for sport, which she was first encouraged to pursue at the age of 15 at the Elite Boxing gym in Bolton.', 'A decade later, Miss Ngamba trains at the Team GB gym at the English Institute of Sport in Sheffield. ']"
380,"['Matin Balsini represented Iran at the last Olympic games in Tokyo', 'A refugee who is based in Guildford says he will be ""proud to represent"" the Refugee Team at the 2024 Paris Olympics.', 'Matin Balsini previously represented Iran at the last Olympic games in Tokyo.', ""He left Iran in 2022 and settled in Surrey. After a seven-month pause as a result of the asylum process, he's been training at Guildford Swimming Club and is looking forward to competing in Paris."", 'Matin said: ""I\'m super excited but a bit nervous for the games.""', ""Matin competes in men's 200m butterfly."", 'He said: ""I hope I can give other people hope and other refugees too. I really like this feeling.', '""I managed to qualify despite not being able for train for seven months. I never thought I was going to be able to do it. Not being able to train for seven months was very difficult.', '""I used to be stressed and not being able to compete made me nervous when I went back. But when I made my return, it was the stress and nerves I realised I loved.""', 'The Refugee Team was announced by Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the athletes found out while on a live stream.', 'Addressing refugees around the world, Bach said: ""We welcome all of you with open arms.', '""You are an enrichment to our Olympic community, and to our societies. With your participation in the Olympic Games, you will demonstrate the human potential of resilience and excellence.', '""This will send a message of hope to the more than 100 million displaced people around the world.""', 'A total of 36 athletes have been selected from 15 countries, and will compete in 12 different sports.']"
381,"['Little Amal will visit Hull in September ', 'A 12ft (3.7m) puppet of a 10-year-old Syrian refugee is coming to Hull.', 'Little Amal will form part of the Yorkshire Integration Festival in September.', 'The festival aims to raise awareness of the experiences of refugees while celebrating resilience, the city council said. ', 'Hull’s Lord Mayor, Councillor Mark Collinson, said: “As a city of sanctuary with a long and proud history of supporting people who have had to flee from their homes through war, persecution, or natural disasters, we are honoured to welcome Little Amal to Hull.""', 'He added: ""She [Amal] is a symbol of hope, understanding and solidarity. Hopefully, she will help to raise awareness of the obstacles faced by refugees to live in safety and make a positive contribution to their new communities. I hope to be able to meet her myself.”', 'On 22 September, Little Amal will be in Pearson Park, where she will help celebrate diversity.', 'Among those welcoming the puppet will be Hull’s Freedom Chorus, children from local schools and youth organisations, and volunteers from other organisations.', 'There will be stalls, games, food, music, and dancing ""evoking the culture and heritage of many of Hull’s refugees"", according to Hull City Council.', 'To date, Little Amal has travelled to 166 towns and cities in 17 countries, external, where it has been welcomed by millions of people.', 'The authority said Amal had ""become a global symbol of human rights"".']"
382,"['A number of refugees fled Afghanistan after the Taliban re-took the country in 2021', 'A council is to use a government grant of £342,000 to buy temporary homes for Afghan refugees', 'North East Lincolnshire Council will use the funding to buy four properties, the Local Democracy Reporting Service (LDRS) said.', 'One of the four properties would be used for general temporary homeless accommodation ', 'Once the Afghanis have been resettled the three others will then be used for homeless families.', 'The Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government has been providing funding to local authorities since the Taliban re-took power in Afghanistan in August 2021.', 'The Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy programme helps those who could face retribution from the Taliban due to their association with international forces in  the country.', 'A council report said the funding would allow empty homes to be brought back into use via the scheme.', 'According to the LDRS, the report added that there was an increased need for accommodation for homeless people in the wake of the Covid pandemic and the cost-of-living crisis.', 'In May, the council cited the rental market and a lack of permanent social housing for an increased use of B&B hotels to house the homeless.']"
383,"['Fatimire Ibrohimi has been sewing since she was a girl and now taught others in the group', 'Refugees said a sewing group, where they could learn new skills and improve their English, was like a family.', 'The charity Suffolk Refugee Support, external established the group in Ipswich almost three years ago.', 'It met weekly during school term time with women, from countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Kurdistan, all coming together to make new friendships.', 'Sarah Cole, 59, and Shakiba Alizadeh, 39, who helped run the group said it was rewarding to be a part of.', 'Sarah Cole (left) and Shakiba Alizadeh (right)  run the sewing group together', '""I think it\'s really nice because in a lot of the other English settings they come to they\'re always on the backfoot, whereas here lots of them are brilliant at sewing,"" Ms Cole said. ', '""They teach each other, it\'s relaxed, we speak a lot of English, we have English speaking classes and it\'s fun.""', 'Ms Cole helped set up the group after Rebecca Crerar, who runs the charity, came to her with the idea.', 'While the group has just finished up for the summer holidays, It usually met on Friday morning in the NW2 space at New Wolsey Theatre on Civic Drive.', 'Some members created traditional dresses', 'Ms Alizadeh also helped settle new refugees into the area.', 'She said the sewing group was ""so helpful"" for new arrivals so they could socialise and learn English.', '""It\'s a way to improve their language which is so helpful,"" she said.', '""They like the group and they enjoy attending.""', 'Ms Cole added the group was a way to help people get outside as many are often nervous to leave when first arriving.', '""They can come, feel at home, and do something they\'ve done since they were a child,"" she said.', '""I think people learn more quickly when they are relaxed and happy.', '""Mental health is a big problem - in the population in general, but it is also for people who have arrived.""', 'The group created different items including modern dresses to more traditional items ', 'The group has several sewing teachers who are refugees themselves and volunteer their time such as Fatimire Ibrohimi, Lajward Sadiq and Kandi Noorgildi.', 'Ms Ibrohimi, 44, from Kosovo has been sewing since she was a little girl and said she enjoyed teaching and making things.', '""I have made dresses, bags, cushions,"" she explained.', '""A dress nearly takes me a day - if the machine is good it\'s one day, if the machine is not good it\'s two days.""', 'Meena Nouri could not sew before she came to the group but used it to learn and meet new people', 'Meena Nouri, 23, came to Ipswich three years ago from Afghanistan.', 'She said she could not sew but was now able to make ""everything"" after attending the group for the past two years.', '""I\'m very, very happy to be a part of it,"" she said.', '""It\'s good for my English conversation and I can make some clothes.', '""I started with bags but now I can make a dress which was my hope.', '""It\'s like a family, everyone is really kind and they help me.""', 'The sewing group will resume meeting after the summer holidays', 'Another woman, who wished to remain anonymous, has been in Ipswich for the past eight years after arriving from Kurdistan in Iraq.', 'She joined the group a year ago after her friends mentioned it to her.', 'The group has taught her how to sew and she can now make clothes, bags, hats, scarves and gloves.', '""It\'s amazing for social relationships,"" she said. ', '""Every week I\'ll come here, even some weeks where I\'m really busy I\'ll spend [my time] here.""', 'She added how much she loved living in Ipswich and did not wish to ever leave.', '""Sometimes my husband and friends suggest we go to other cities like Manchester or London but I can\'t leave [Ipswich],"" she explained.', '""This is like a family, I can\'t leave my family.', '""I\'m thankful for the support from this place, it\'s a big emotional support for people.""', ""Suffolk New College's Imogen Fraser said working with the group in the fashion show was rewarding"", ""The group's work was used during the charity's 25th anniversary celebrations."", 'A fashion show and party in collaboration with students from Suffolk New College was held at Dance East on the Ipswich Waterfront.', 'Imogen Fraser is a performing arts lecturer at the college who specialises in dance and worked with the sewing group for the event along with her colleague Kelly Fletcher.', '""It\'s just lovely seeing all the different cultures working together, with not necessarily language being the common theme, but the clothing and music bringing us together,"" said Ms Fraser.', '""The collaboration between performing arts department at Suffolk New College and the sewing group has been really enriching.', '""It\'s something that kind of fell in our lap - if Sarah hadn\'t contacted us we would never have known it existed.""', 'Anyone wishing to contact Suffolk Refugee Support is encouraged to do so via their website., external']"
384,"['Ukrainian refugees Liudmyla Hrebeniuk (L) and her daughter Alina Liudchko (R) have been living with their hosts Kev and Mae Draper since fleeing the Russian invasion', 'A Ukrainian mother and daughter who fled after Russian forces invaded their country say they are ""grateful"" for all the support they have received.', 'It comes as several councils in the West are increasing the amount of money paid to people hosting Ukrainian refugees.', 'Many have been living with sponsors as part of the Homes for Ukraine scheme.', '""Most people prefer to be in a safe country. For us, England is now home,"" said Liudmyla Hrebeniuk.', 'Liudmyla Hrebeniuk was at a refugee camp when she and her daughter were invited to come to the UK ', 'Mrs Hrebeniuk and her daughter Alina Liudchko came to the UK after meeting host Kev Draper as he delivered aid at a refugee camp on the Ukrainian-Polish border.', ""Since living at the Drapers' home in Keynsham near Bristol, both have been adapting to life in their new country. "", '""Home is Ukraine but now its very difficult to live there [because of the war],"" Ms Hrebenik said. ', '""I now see England as my home. Its been difficult as my English is not so good.', '""But now I go to college in Bath and my English is better now, I am happier.""', 'She added they were grateful for the support they had received, with money for food and clothing. ', 'Hosts Kev and Mae Draper are being given more money by the council to help with the cost of living ', 'Hosts Kev and Mae Draper welcomed the pair to their home six months ago.', '""I just thought, well, we have the room available - why not invite them back to the UK?"" said Mr Draper.', '""They just seemed like very nice people, but lost, not knowing what to do.""', 'When informed there would be more money available from council to help hosts  with the cost of living, Mr Draper said he welcomed it.', '""But we don\'t do this for the financial benefits, we don\'t calculate it,"" he said.', '""You need to do this because you want to it,"" agreed Mrs Draper.', '""If you\'re doing it because you think the finance will help you, it won\'t work."" ', 'Liudmyla Hrebeniuk and daughter Alina Liudchko say England is now their home', 'To help off-set the costs of rising energy and food bills, councils are increasing the amount they pay hosts.', 'Among them is South Gloucestershire Council. It said it is now paying £500 pounds per month to ease the cost - an increase from £350.  ', 'The authority is also renewing an appeal for new hosts as 60 new refugees are expected to arrive in the area in the next few months.', ""Cabinet member for Cost of Living, Equalities and Public Health, Councillor Alison Evans, said the hosts already helping people displaced by the war in Ukraine had been 'fantastic.'"", '""They\'ve opened up their hearts as well as their homes to our Ukrainian guests, so if you have a spare room and time to help Ukrainians and really want to help, please contact us.', '""What we provide is also a wrap-around service to provide support - financial, medical, housing and language support."" ', 'Other authorities have also outlined what they are doing to help those taking part in the scheme.', 'Bristol City Council, Bath and North East Somerset (BANES), Wiltshire County Council, Swindon Borough Council and Somerset Council are all boosting the payments to £500 a month when guests have been living in the UK beyond six months.', 'Gloucestershire County Council, however, is providing £600 a month, regardless of how long the guests are with a host family.']"
385,"['Ukrainian families are still arriving in Derbyshire', 'Host families still need to be found to house Ukrainian families in Derbyshire more than two years on from Russia’s invasion.', 'There are about 290 host households already in place said Derbyshire County Council, but about 15 to 20 refugees arrive each month who need homes.', 'The council on Wednesday approved an increase in “thank you” payments from its share of the national Homes for Ukraine scheme to residents and landlords who are hosting, to £700 a month.', 'A free bus pass scheme for Ukrainian guests in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire was also extended to March 2025.', 'Councillor Carol Hart said: “We greatly value the role Derbyshire hosts are playing in providing safe refuge for more than 750 people who came to our county to escape the war in Ukraine.', '“Previous enhancements to ‘thank-you’ payments for hosts in Derbyshire has proved highly effective in reducing homelessness, providing stability, and maintaining hosting arrangements.', '“As a result, the number of hosts has remained relatively static over the last 12 months.”', 'Councillor Hart said the increase would bring payments closer to current rental costs, help keep existing homes in the scheme, and attract new households to the scheme.', 'Anyone wanting to host a Ukrainian family needs to guarantee at least six months of accommodation and agree to provide a basic level of support for their new tenants.']"
386,"['The event included people from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Sri Lanka', 'A project to help displaced women learn to play cricket has been set up in Somerset. ', 'The OMAID project aims to provide a community space to support physical and mental wellbeing.', 'Somerset Cricket Foundation and charity Diversity Voice are working together to help teach the sport.', 'The chief executive of Diversity Voice Natalie Dyson said: ""OMAID is a Persian word which means hope and we wanted to bring people together through sport.""', 'Natalie Dyson is the CEO of charity Diversity Voice which helped set up the project  ', ""A group of refugees and asylum seekers recently took part in a match on St Matthew's Field, Bridgwater, to highlight world refugee day."", 'The event, called Cooking, Conversation and Cricket, had people from several countries, including Afghanistan, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, taking part. ', 'Ms Dyson added: ""While people are waiting for their visas they feel unsettled so we think it\'s important to get them out into the community to give them something to focus on.""', 'Umanga from Sri Lanka took part in the game in Bridgwater and said the event ""made her very happy"" and described it as ""a wonderful day.""', 'The project has been set up with funding from the Warm Spaces initiative. ', 'The women have been attending cricket training sessions at the Junction 24 Auction Centre in North Petherton.', 'Natalie Dyson added: ""It\'s been amazing to see people from different cultures and with different languages and religions come together in harmony to play as one team.""', ""It is hoped the project will continue to grow and develop, with the ladies' keen to find local fixtures in the summer.""]"
387,"[""Luwam Gebru said people smugglers were taking her across Sudan's war zone to Libya"", 'Mihret Gebru was recently watching with concern two viral videos on her phone which showed people from the Horn of Africa being beaten and assaulted by armed men in Sudan - and was then horrified to spot her sister among the captives.', '“Instantly I was able to identify Luwam, who is wearing the orange scarf I know very well - and her shoes, which can be partly seen,” she told the BBC.', 'The sisters are from Eritrea - and like many young people Luwam Gebru had fled the country’s indefinite military conscription that they feel denies them a future.', 'She had ended up in neighbouring Ethiopia in 2019, where she had refugee status. But being a refugee can be like living a life in limbo - and many choose to make dangerous journeys in search of new lives and opportunities.', 'Ms Mihret said her 24-year-old sibling had decided to risk traversing the war zone of Sudan to reach Libya last year, several months after the conflict erupted.', 'Sudan descended into chaos in April 2023 when former allies - the army and paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) - began fighting each other for control of the country.', 'Many foreign nationals were hastily evacuated - but some refugees already in the country and recently arrived migrants like Ms Luwam found themselves treated with suspicion and taken as prisoners of war.', '“We didn’t hear her voice for almost a month,” says Ms Mihret.', '“She had called once from Sudan and told us: ‘Don’t worry I have arrived in Sudan safely and we might reach Libya this week.’”', 'Her younger sister sounded confident that the people smugglers she had entrusted with her life would not let her down.', 'But nothing was heard of her for another five months - until the videos appeared on social media in April.', 'BBC Verify’s analysis of the footage suggests they were uploaded on 7 and 8 April.', 'A Sudanese army general refers to the 50 or so detainees on board a truck as “mercenaries from Somalia, Eritrea and Ethiopia”.', 'They appear to have been captured fleeing fierce fighting around the al-Jaily oil refinery, north of the capital, Khartoum, which has been in the hands of the RSF and is used as a base in the area.', ""In one of the videos, an army officer says the captives are being transferred to the army's Wadi Seidna military base, which is also north of the capital."", 'There have been unsubstantiated reports that foreign fighters are being used by the RSF - which may explain the hostility to the group from the army officers.', 'Luwam Gebru, in her orange scarf, was pictured with other foreigners in an image thought to be from April', 'Still photos of the group, including several with Ms Luwam in her orange scarf, show them crammed into a room in a warehouse.', 'Ms Mihret, who was also able to identify one of her neighbours from Eritrea among the group, said they have not been able to get any more information.', '“We don’t know much, we are told they are under the custody of the Sudanese authorities.”', 'Other Eritreans have told the BBC they have relatives registered as refugees in Sudan who have gone missing and are reportedly being held by the Sudanese military.', 'Two of them left Eritrea together last year, arriving at a UN-run refugee camp in Kassala state in eastern Sudan in October.', 'Their families say that Yonatan Tesfaslassie, aged 17, and Edmon Kidane, 20, were then approached by smugglers.', 'Such traffickers, some of whom are alleged to be from the RSF, often target the young and newly arrived promising them a safe route out of Sudan for a fee.', 'Once en route they put pressure on them to ask relatives abroad to pay more money and then abandon them on the way.', 'In Mr Yonatan’s and Mr Edmon’s case, they were aiming for South Sudan when it seems they were abandoned by the smugglers and became separated.', 'It appears they had both made it to Wad Madani, in Gezira state, a city about 190km (118 miles) south of Khartoum that had been a safe-haven for many since the start of the war.', 'But in December it fell to RSF troops and more than 300,000 fled the area in the chaos.', 'That was the last time Mr Yonatan’s family heard from him – when he said he was setting out with other migrants towards South Sudan.', 'Hundreds of thousands of people fled Wad Madani ahead of the RSF taking the city in December', 'His sister Winta Tesfaslassie later heard from those who managed to make it safely across the border that he may be among many migrants who were then arrested in the army-held town of Rabek a little further south.', 'Some of them, they said, were taken to the nearby town of Sinjah and others possibly to the town of Sennar to be held by the army.', '“The entire family is so worried and we have no idea what to do, we feel helpless. We want to know if he is safe, he is too young to go through such an ordeal and he has nothing to do with the war in Sudan,” Ms Winta, who lives in the UK, told the BBC.', 'Mr Edmon’s family also last heard from him when he was in Wad Madani - though it appears he was detained in the city several weeks before it fell to the RSF.', '“We were told by a smuggler he was held by the Sudanese army,” his sister Adiam Kidane, who is based in Angola, told the BBC.', 'The smuggler was their only source of information “but later he stopped answering our calls”, she said.', ""A smuggler told Edmon Kidane's family that the young man was detained by the military in Wad Madani"", '“We couldn’t tell our mother for a long time but eventually we had to. She fainted the moment she heard we had no news of him. We are all in distress. We are constantly thinking what might have happened to him.”', 'Some reports say more than 200 migrants of different nationalities had been detained at a military facility in Wad Madani before the RSF advance - information the BBC cannot independently confirm.', 'It has since been reported that the detainees were moved with the army when it withdrew from Wad Madani.', 'The UN refugee agency says it has received similar reports about the detention by the army of asylum seekers and refugees. According to the UN, there are more than 147,000 Eritreans and around 70,000 Ethiopians in the country.', 'It told the BBC it was planning a verification mission to Sennar state, which includes the towns of Sinjah and Rabek, urging relatives of refugees who believe them to be in detention to report the information through the UNHCR Sudan’s help page, external. ', 'Likewise the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said those with a family member missing in Sudan should open a case via its hotline or offices in the country, external. ', '“Helping families who lost contact with their loved ones to trace them is one of our major priorities. But our ability to do this depends on the access we have and the volatile security situation,” the ICRC told the BBC.', 'The Sudanese embassy in London did not respond to a BBC request for comment on the detentions of foreign nationals.', 'Despite international efforts to stop the fighting in which more than 15,000 people are believed to have been killed, the warring parties are unable to agree a ceasefire.', 'The three sisters who have spoken to the BBC about their missing siblings say it is an incredibly frustrating process to find out any information be it from the ICRC, UN or the military.', '“Please help us, the UN, anyone… we are desperate,” said Ms Winta.', '“We appeal to the Sudanese authorities to please, please allow them to call us to hear their voices.', '“We beg the army to release them, these are innocent young people who left their country with the hope of reaching a safe destination in South Sudan.”', 'Sudan war: A simple guide to what is happening', 'Evidence of Iran and UAE drones used in Sudan war', 'Why Eritreans are at war with each other around the world', 'Go to BBCAfrica.com, external for more news from the African continent.', '']"
388,"['Jersey Overseas Aid said the island would be the first place the photos would be the exhibited in Europe', 'An outdoor photography exhibition showcasing photos of Rohingya will be placed across seven locations in Jersey as part of a European premiere.', 'Jersey Overseas Aid said the Rohingya, who it has been supporting for five years, were an ethnic minority who had been denied citizenship in Myanmar and ""faced decades of persecution"".', 'It said it would the first time the photos would be exhibited in in Europe, and would highlight the ""trials, triumphs and resilience"" of the camps in Cox’s Bazar - which together make up the largest refugee camp in the world.', 'Deputy Carolyn Labey, Minister for International Development and Chair of the JOA Commission, said its projects alongside partners ""achieve extraordinary things in some of the most challenging environments in the world"".', 'She said: ""The photographs featured in this exhibition are a testament to the resilience and dignity of the Rohingya people, as well as the vital work being done to support them.', '""I am delighted that Jersey is hosting this powerful but beautiful selection of images that will provide a unique and highly personal perspective of a protracted crisis that rarely gets the international attention it deserves and where refugees seldom get the opportunity to tell their stories.""', 'The photos highlight the ""trials, triumphs and resilience"" of the camps in Cox’s Bazar', 'Some photos depict images including the Great Fire in 2021, which refugee aid groups said affected between 40,500 and 50,000 people.', 'Others show the lives of children growing up in the refugee camps.', 'Photos from The Rohingya Experience will be placed around town at Liberation Square, West’s Centre, Charing Cross, the Cenotaph and on King and Queen Street from Monday 1 July until Sunday 14 July.']"
389,"['Refugease runs shops in Tunbridge Wells, Maidstone and Uxbridge', 'A refugee charity based in Kent is appealing for funds to save it from closure. ', 'Refugease, based in Tunbridge Wells, was launched in 2015 to collect and distribute aid to conflict zones across Europe and beyond. ', 'Founders say the charity is in ""financial crisis"" as a result of the increases in the cost of living and ""donor fatigue"". ', 'It has launched a fundraising campaign to raise £48,000 so it can continue its work across Syria, eastern Ukraine and Gaza. ', 'In a post on its fundraising page, the charity says: ""Since the cost of living crisis has escalated, and new wars and natural disasters spring up more regularly, this has understandably resulted in donor fatigue.', '""People have much less disposable income so our charity shop income has also reduced dramatically, which previously provided the backbone of our income.""', 'The charity runs shops in Tunbridge Wells, Maidstone and Uxbridge selling vintage goods to raise money for its cause. ', 'Valentina Osbourn, Refugease founder, said: ""For the last almost a decade Refugease has been my life - waking or sleeping. It would be devastating if the charity were to fold.""', 'Refugease founder Valentina Osbourn, pictured on an aid trip to Syria (centre), said it would be ""devastating"" if the charity were to fold', 'Ms Osbourn continued: ""In order to keep operating as we were, we need to find other sustainable reliable ways to make money, otherwise we face administration in four months.', '""We’re just not making ends meet. We will, with all the cuts we\'ve recently made, but we need to bridge that gap.""', 'Refugease says it focuses its aid work in conflict zones where ""other charities do not operate""', 'The aid organisation began as a direct result of the death of two-year-old Alan Kurdi from Syria, who drowned and washed up on a Turkish beach in 2015. ', 'Refugease added that it was ""itching to get back to serving the world\'s most vulnerable people"".', 'So far it has raised just over £2,500 towards its target and thanked the Kent and Tunbridge Wells community for supporting its cause almost single-handedly since 2015. ']"
390,"['The Welcome Dress features themes from several different countries', 'An exhibition hosted in Leicester aims to display the creativity of refugees and asylum seekers.', 'The showcase, called ""Everyone Welcome"", opened at Leicester Museum and Art Gallery in New Walk on Friday and runs until 31 October.', ""At the centre of the exhibition is a dress created by a women's textile group which meets each week at Leicester City of Sanctuary."", 'Individual panels on the dress feature symbols that represent the home countries of the women, who are rebuilding their lives in the city.', 'Leicester City of Sanctuary is a charity that welcomes and supports refugees and asylum seekers in and around the city.', 'The ""Welcome Dress"" includes birds and flowers from Kurdistan, elephants from Zimbabwe, the sun, the lion and the sword from Iran, as well as a peacock and pomegranate from Afghanistan.', 'Britain is also represented through a tree and a hand, as a sign of shelter and a warm welcome respectively.', 'Maggie Edgington, interim operations lead at the charity, said: “Our volunteers and participants have worked hard on the Welcome Dress and the other items on display and we are delighted to be able to showcase our work at Leicester Museum and Art Gallery this summer.”']"
391,"['Ryan Guldemond has produced a song with young people from a Surrey refugee charity', 'A Surrey charity has produced a song with the lead singer of an international indie rock band.', 'The Big Leaf Foundation in Guildford supports refugee children living in the county', ""The charity has worked with Ryan Guldemond from the band Mother Mother, to produce the song Please Don't Let Me Down, produced by Livingstone Brown."", 'The track was produced to mark refugee week in June.', 'First founded as a summer camp for 12 youngsters in 2017, The Big Leaf Foundation now provides year-round activities for displaced children.', 'It runs projects to tackle social isolation, including the arts, sports and equine therapy.', 'The song was co-written and produced by some of the young people the charity is currently working with, and can be heard here., external', 'It was mixed and mastered at the ACM Studios in Guildford.']"
392,"['The festival was to celebrate compassion, show the talents of refugees and raise awareness', 'A festival has been held to celebrate the heritage of Ukraine during Refugee Week.', 'The Mriya Festival held in Sussex included music, crafts and traditional food and raised money for Ukrainians fighting on the front line.', 'It has been more than two years since Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, ', 'Organiser Valeriya Dvornyk said the one-day event in Bexhill was to celebrate compassion, show the talents of refugees and raise awareness.', 'The Mriya Festival held in Sussex included music, traditional food and crafts', 'Ms Dvornyk said she had run a busy and successful hub for Ukrainian displaced people in the area for the past two and a half years.', '""In times like this, more than ever, people need to be together,"" she said.', '""They need to have a hand to hold to do things together and singing is therapeutic.', '""So it\'s definitely helping their emotional wellbeing and building friendships.”', 'Ukrainian refugee Olena Zdielnikova, a musician and teacher living in Hastings who performed in the festival, said: ""This is the way to prove that we are the same people.', '""We are well-educated, we are raising kids, we have hobbies, we are talented. We want to build our future.', '""We want to be a part of you, we want to share something with you and we are really grateful that you’re sharing your support with us.”', 'The local Ukrainian community has so far raised more than £15,000 to send to the war effort.', 'Funds raised on Saturday will go towards medical supplies.']"
393,"['The Great Refugee Week Picnic has been running since 2017', 'A picnic has been held in south Belfast to welcome refugees and asylum seekers as part of Refugee Week.', 'The Great Refugee Week Picnic has been running since 2017.', 'It was organised by Belfast City of Sanctuary.', 'The group was set up  to make Belfast a welcoming environment for refugees, asylum-seekers and new communities.', 'This year\'s theme was about home and Belfast and Northern Ireland being ""home"".', 'Refugees gathered in the Ulidia playing fields to celebrate and showcase their culture through music and food.', 'Mehrshad Esfandiari said the event was a ""celebration of diversity""', 'Mehrshad Esfandiari is chairperson of Belfast City of Sanctuary and has been involved with the group since 2018.', 'He said the picnic was a ""celebration of diversity"".', 'Mehrshad said he came to Belfast as a refugee but found it to be a ""city of sanctuary"". ', 'He said he found the people in Belfast and Northern Ireland ""lovely and welcoming"".', '""We just wanted that for newcomers to feel that and to to see how nice people are here,"" he said.', 'Tiwa Olatunbosun is a volunteer at City of Sanctuary.', 'She is originally from Nigeria and came to Belfast four years ago.', 'It is the third year she has attended the event and said it was getting ""bigger and bigger"" every year.', '""I really enjoy being part of the community, giving back to the community and also getting to meet new people from different communities as well.', 'Tiwa Olatunbosun is originally from Nigeria and came to Belfast four years ago', '""It feels really amazing because it feels like going to different countries, I get to have a taste of different meals from different countries, I get to meet different people and I see things that are different to mine.""', 'She added: ""Every tribe and culture is unique.""', 'Tiwa arrived with her family to Belfast during lockdown so did not get a chance to meet with people face-to-face and her interactions were limited to zoom calls.', '""As soon as the country opened up I was glad to be a part of the community. It\'s been amazing.""', 'She said the only downside to living in Belfast was ""four weathers in a day"". ', '""It took some getting used to the cold but I\'m getting there,"" she joked.', 'Simav Ali and Romav Ali both recently became volunteers for City of Sanctuary', 'Romav Ali and Simav Ali have both attended the refugee picnic for many years and recently became volunteers for City of Sanctuary.', 'Romaz said she was originally from Syria. ', '""I\'m Syrian-Kurdish and I moved here in 2016,"" she said. ', '""I love attending the picnics and I noticed the volunteers helping out and doing good and I felt it was part of me and I had to do  it.', '""When I first came here I felt I was going to be the only refugee in my school, in my class but as more people started coming here, it\'s really amazing to see all the diversity and the different nationalities. ""', 'The event has been running for a number of years', 'Simaz Ali said the event was a chance for those attending to experience food from around the world.', '""We have a bakery business and we wanted to share the sweets and deserts that we have from our own culture so we brought baklava, many different types,"" she said. ', '""When you go to Turkey for vacation, you can see many different types. We brought it here to share with all the different people here, to show them and teach them about our culture and our diversity.', '""As an immigrant I think it\'s really useful to learn about other peoples\' culture and background.""']"
394,"['One of the refugees part of the collaboration is Vlad', 'The stories of refugee entrepreneurs have been highlighted in a social media campaign by two groups for Refugee Week.', 'The collection of portraits have been created by Open Britain, a photographic project, and non-profit organisation The Entrepreneurial Refugee Network (TERN).', 'They showcase people who have used their skills or developed new ones as entrepreneurs after escaping conflict and danger in their homeland.', ""Those who've taken part in the campaign include a bubble show artist, potter and chef."", 'Akbar and his wife Sanobar run a restaurant together', 'Akbar Majidova, a chef originally from Uzbekistan, has built a culinary career in the UK.', 'Together with his wife Sanobar, he runs a catering business called A Taste of Samarkand.', 'Their goal is to promote their food and contribute to society, specifically in areas such as education, arts, music, and supporting women and children in their home country.', 'Wooden fairy lights were a sell-out success for Oksana and Oleksii Chaiun', 'Husband and wife Oksana and Oleksii Chaiun met while working for an electrical retailer in Ukraine. ', 'Ms Chaiun came to the UK with her 18-month-old and 14-year-old three months after the Russian invasion.', 'She was separated from her husband for more than a year and a half. ', 'Mr Chaiun started working with a friend’s woodwork factory while he was still in Ukraine and showed his wife some oak homeware prototypes. ', 'In 2023 Ms Chaiun visited her husband in Ukraine and returned with some of their lights and they sold out immediately. ', 'Their business is now developing. ', 'Photography helped Max overcome PTSD', 'Max came to the UK in 2015 as a refugee, and it took him five years to get asylum status.', 'He said he experienced Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and would have nightmares about his persecution.', 'He put up Union Jack Flags with signs in his government-sponsored room. ', 'They read: ""I am safe"", and ""this is not real"" to help him when he woke up. ', 'He received support through a photography workshop called Photo Nomad which Max said turned ""his life from darkness to light"".', 'He has now started started his own business called Payanam.', 'He is working with TERN ""to create a platform to help as many refugees as possible to heal from their difficulties through photography and art and feeling part of a community"". ', 'Payanam will be funded by donations and through sharing the proceeds of selling the refugees’ artwork as well as selling its own merchandise.', 'Olena used to work as a bubble show artist', 'In April 2022, Olena Nesterenko came to the UK from Ukraine when the war began.  ', 'She said she came with her ""two daughters, a small bag and a few documents"" under the Homes for Ukraine scheme. ', 'She gained a job as a teaching assistant, but had previously been a bubble show artist.', 'She decided to begin bubble shows again, and said: ""When I perform now, I still have this special feeling – if I am in a bad mood, have bad feelings, or feel unwell, everything passes immediately.""', 'Razieh has set up her own pottery business in the UK ', 'Razieh Riazati founded ceramics brand, Raaz Pottery, in the UK after she left Iran.', 'In her home country she had worked in an orphanage and taught children pottery.', 'She has continued to teach pottery in the UK and works with TERN to sell her art.', 'She said: ""Migration is not easy. Even the simple things must change - our habits and previous lifestyle.""', 'Veronika is artist who fled Ukraine after the Russian invasion', 'Veronika Shmorhun lived in Kyiv until the Russians invaded, and was studying for her MA in Graphic Design as well as studying fashion design. ', 'She lived for two weeks under Russian occupation before she evacuated through Poland to get a flight to London in April 2022. ', 'She started to paint – her primary subject is nature, inspired by both the bombing, burnt grain fields and broken trees.', 'She has had four exhibitions in under two years, including a group show at the Saatchi Gallery. ', 'Meanwhile she has made the headdress and black outfit pictured above – her modern tribute to her homeland and national dress. ', 'Veronika works with TERN to develop her profile as an artist, as well as developing a career as a compositor in film post-production.', 'Vlad was forced to give up his life in Kazakstan and flee to the UK because of his sexuality', 'Vladimir Kolodin was unable to be openly gay in Kazakstan.', 'In 2016 he was forced to give up his life and flee to the UK. ', 'In Kazakstan he had done a PhD in Psychology, and played instruments as a hobby before he found work as a clinical psychologist. ', ""In the UK, a lack of recognition of Mr Kolodin's Kazak qualifications limited the work he could do. "", 'He continued to play and learn new instruments and recognised he could combine his passion for supporting people’s mental health with his love for music. ', 'He founded Faerie Mystic which uses a blend of acoustic, indigenous instruments and different spiritual traditions to create transcendental music. ', 'He is working with TERN to develop his vision for Faerie Mystic and hopes to create a festival and a space for community building.', 'Yeukai helps young refugees and also runs a boutique', 'Yeukai Taruvinga was born in Zimbabwe and fled to the UK due to political unrest in the country more than 10 years ago. ', 'She spent nine years in the asylum system. ', 'She now leads Active Horizons, a youth-led organization empowering migrant and refugee young people in London. ', 'She also runs Shumba Boutique, and creates African clothing.', 'People can view the photography collaboration on the Instagram account for Open Britain: Portrait of a Diverse Nation, external.']"
395,"['The Oxford Phoenix team was launched in 2021 and train twice a week', 'Players on a football team for refugees have said the sport has helped them make friends and ""forget the bad things"" that have happened to them.', 'Oxford Phoenix was launched in 2021 by charity Refugee Resource, and works with  refugees and asylum seekers based in the city.', 'It aims to help them integrate into the community and develop life skills ""on and off the pitch"".', ""The club is now looking for funding to start a women and girls' team, as well as enter their men's team into a local amateur league."", ""One of the team's 40 players is Usman, an asylum seeker from Sierra Leone, who has spent the last six months living in a hotel in the city. "", 'Oxford Phoenix has more than 40 players', 'He said the team ""means a lot"" to him, and that before joining he had been going through depression and was not sleeping.', '""I didn\'t have friends, so since I got in contact with this team I do less thinking because football makes me happy,"" he added.', 'The team trains twice weekly, and regularly plays in friendly fixtures against local teams.', 'Esrom, who would walk two hours to every training session before the charity Asylum Welcome provided him with a bike, said: ""You try to forget the bad things that happen in your life.', '""First I was in the camp, so since I come here in Oxford everything is doing good.""', 'Youcef El-Barhdadi (R) coaches the team', 'Youcef El-Barhdadi coaches the team, and works for the Oxfordshire FA as an inclusion officer.', '""We have people from Eritrea, Ethiopia and Afghanistan, so people from all over the world, but the key is that it doesn\'t matter that they share different languages, they\'re able to connect on football and that\'s why we call it the universe,"" he said.', 'Mr El-Barhdadi, whose father came to the UK as a refugee from Algeria in the 1970s, added: ""It\'s funny, sometimes life just comes full circle, and just being able to help refugees is it means the world to me.""', 'Oxford United legends Peter Rhoades-Brown and James Constable recently joined the team for a training session', 'Refugee Oussainy, a centre-half from Mali, told the BBC that he dreams of playing professionally.', '""I know it\'s not easy to do, but I believe in myself and I\'m trying to do everything,"" he said.', 'The team is now looking to officially join the English football pyramid.', 'Mr El-Barhdadi said: “We’ve seen the positive impact regular training and friendly fixtures has on the physical and mental wellbeing of refugees and asylum seekers who have experienced unthinkable trauma to be here.', '""We now want to take our delivery to the next level by establishing Oxfordshire’s first refugee football squad in a local league.""']"
396,"['Mouhyedin Alkhalil said Syrians love to chat over tea as much as British people do', 'A Syrian refugee is travelling the country sharing cups of tea and ""stories of hope.""', 'Mouhyedin Alkhalil arrived in Darlington eight years ago after fleeing the conflict in Syria.', ""He is now sharing his experiences with communities across the UK via the Cuppa Hope initiative, which is raising awareness for the UN Refugee Agency's UK partner, UK for UNHCR. "", 'He said: ""For me, my life stopped the day I left Syria and I came back to life when I arrived in Darlington.""', 'Mr Alkhalil, who is from the city of Homs, lost friends and family when the war broke out and he said his ""heart and soul"" remains with those left behind.', 'He said his life became a matter of survival when bullets started raining down upon his city and his family home of more than a century was reduced to rubble.', ""Forced to flee overnight, he eventually found sanctuary in England through the UNHCR's resettlement scheme for vulnerable people."", 'He said his focus had been on trying to ""give something back"" to the country.', 'He also said the welcome he received encouraged him to find happiness again, launch a career in business and start a family. ', '""Whatever I do, I can never pay back the love and care I get from people here,"" he said.', '""The way I have been treated by this community, I owe them my life.""', 'Mr Alkhalil said his mission was to raise awareness and promote understanding of the plight of refugees.', '""We are human, we did not want to become refugees,"" he said.', '""I came here and couldn\'t speak English, I didn\'t know anything about the UK because I\'d never thought about leaving my own city.', '""But I came here for safety and then it became my responsibility to become part of the community, to get a job and pay taxes.""', 'Refugees have been engaging with communities at pop-up cafes across the UK', 'During the sessions held to mark Refugee Week, guests tasted recipes and heard stories from refugees from Syria, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, East Africa and Ukraine.', 'UK for UNHCR chief executive, Emma Cherniavsky, said the events were ""about so much more than drinking tea"".', '""With a simple cup of tea, you can start a conversation and extend the hand of friendship to someone who is new to your community,"" she added.']"
397,"['Fawzia Ehsani wants to use her skills and experience to help post-conflict countries', 'An Afghan refugee who came to the UK after the Taliban seized power has said she wants to help rebuild the country she left.', 'Fawzia Ehsani is now studying for a PhD at the University of York after being evacuated by the British government and awarded a scholarship.', 'In Afghanistan, she worked for the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation but was forced to leave her mother behind when she realised she would have few career opportunities under the new regime.', 'She now hopes the skills gained from her postgraduate studies will enable her to help women still living in her homeland.', 'Fawzia Ehsani fled Afghanistan to pursue her education and career', 'The Taliban took control of Afghanistan in 2021, prompting many citizens to flee the country.', 'Ms Ehsani was able to enjoy an education and career in the period before the Taliban regained power.', ""In 2020, she was one of 1,650 applicants to be successfully awarded a Chevening Scholarship, which funds overseas students to undertake a Master's course at any UK university."", 'She was set to take up her place before security challenges meant it was deferred for a year.', '“It was really shocking because we didn’t expect these things to happen to my country and my home,” she said. ', '“Everything broke inside me and I realised everything was finished in that country.”', 'She was offered emergency evacuation, but was only granted a single visa.', '“My mother wanted me to go and pursue my degree, and she said one day we may be together again.', '""It was really difficult for her but she was trying her best to educate me,"" she said.', 'Her mother had supported her education after her father died because she wanted her to become independent.', '""Finally, I can say that my dream came true, and my mum\'s dream came true,"" Ms Ehsani added.', 'Her mother wanted to ensure her daughter was able to complete her education', 'When Ms Ehsani arrived in the UK she had not eaten for 24 hours.', '“It was so hard to be in a new place, knowing you will never go back to your home and your country.', '""It was really hard and I left my friends, my family and my home.""', 'She settled in York and found temporary work while she was studying.', ""After completing her Master's degree, she embarked on a PhD course at York."", 'Fawzia Ehsani at the inauguration for free driving lessons for female staff in Afghanistan before the Taliban took control', 'Her aim is now to use her experience to help countries recover from conflict.', 'She also advised that refugees in her position should actively seek out support systems available in the UK.']"
398,"['The Right Reverend Rose Hudson-Wilkin had a ""long night, but a good night""', 'The Bishop of Dover has slept in a tent overnight to mark the plight of displaced people as part of Refugee Week. ', 'The Right Reverend Rose Hudson-Wilkin said she had a ""long night, but a good night"" resting on the floor in the Chapter House, at Canterbury Cathedral.', 'She told BBC Radio Kent: ""All of my thoughts and prayers were with those around the world, the millions whose homes is a tent.""', 'Refugee Week, which runs to 23 June, is an international festival which celebrates the ""contributions, creativity and resilience"" of refugees and asylum seekers.', 'Thursday also marks World Refugee Day, an annual event by the United Nations to honour refugees.', 'Bishop Hudson-Wilkin, the Church of England’s first black female bishop, said she wanted to ""have a sense of what... this feels like"" after visiting a refugee camp in Calais.', '""For me, sleeping out was just a glimpse that captured in just that moment what it must be like for those who day after a day this is their home,"" she said.', ""She was asked what she would say to those with concerns about the UK's capacity to host more refugees and asylum seekers, following the arrival of more than 880 people who crossed the Channel on Tuesday."", '""I want to say to those of us who are comfortable in our beds, in our homes, with brick walls and warmth, please let\'s not be too comfortable,"" she said. ""Let\'s show compassion"".', 'An exhibition has been opened at the Chapter House to mark Refugee Week. ']"
399,"['Handmade clothes, including traditional Kurdish, Afghan and Syrian dresses, were modelled with dance and singing performances', 'A refugee support charity has celebrated its 25th anniversary with a fashion show and party.', 'Suffolk Refugee Support was founded in 1999 to offer advice, advocacy and help to people arriving in the county.', 'An event held at Dance East, external on the Ipswich Waterfront included students from Suffolk New College, external modelling clothes made at a weekly sewing group.', 'Maryam Arif, an Afghan resettlement worker, said: ""They do an amazing job for everyone who needs help.""', 'Maryam Arif, originally from Afghanistan, has been working at Suffolk Refugee Support for six months', 'Ms Arif came to the UK from Afghanistan in 2012, studying art and design at Suffolk New College in Ipswich before working in the healthcare sector.', 'She has handmade some of the clothes on display, telling the show audience that ""wherever you live, that\'s your country"". ', '""No doubt I\'m from Afghanistan, I love Afghanistan, but now I\'m here, I\'m from England, too,"" she said.', ""The show opened with a vocal performance of Dolly Parton's  9 to 5, with videos of the sewing group shown during outfit changes"", 'The latest data , externalfrom the government shows that in the year to March 2024 there were 69,298 new asylum applications made in the UK, down 14% on the previous year.', 'The most recent information shows there are 1,857 people, including those on specific Ukraine and Afghanistan schemes, being supported across the five local authorities in Suffolk.', 'Charity founder Cynthia Capey and current charity manager Rebecca Crerar enjoyed the performances and food from around the world', 'Supporters, staff and volunteers, along with people who have been helped by Suffolk Refugee Support, were welcomed by manager Rebecca Crerar.', 'She spoke of her pride in the network, but also her sadness at the continuing need.', '""We started off with Kosovans, and Afghans and Kurds and then Syrian, Sudanese, everybody,"" she said.', '""We have built an organisation that is proud to help those people and support them and watch them grow and tonight, that fashion show was just incredible.', '""There\'s so many people here tonight who I know from the past, who came needing a lot of help at very low points on their life, and now they\'re here with their children, they are running businesses, smiling and doing so well."" ', ""The charity's new patron, Sir Nick Young, spoke to 200 guests at the anniversary event"", 'The charity has also appointed its first patron, Sir Nick Young, the former chief executive of the British Red Cross.', 'He has previously worked for Sue Ryder and Leonard Cheshire, before becoming chief executive of Macmillan Cancer Support. He was knighted for services to cancer care in 2000.', '""I\'ve seen both ends of the refugee chain,"" Sir Nick said. ', '""I\'ve seen the plight people are in when they come to this country, fearing persecution and with their lives at risk in their own countries.', '""I\'ve seen the other end of that in conflict situations or all over the world, Syria, particularly.', '""I\'m quite sure that if this country was ever to be invaded, people here would feel exactly the same sense of fear and determination to try and find a better life.', '""They come here because they see this country as a beacon of hope and they believe that it\'s the kind of country that would welcome them.', '""Sadly, that isn\'t always the case.""']"
400,"['Aisha is an award-winning theatre producer, playwright and literary fellow at the Royal Literary Fund', 'The testimonies of first and second generation migrants are being pushed to the forefront of conversation at a theatre event during Refugee Week. ', 'Award-winning writer Aisha Zia has used inclusivity to create both a play and platform for the stories of underserved communities.', 'The 43-year-old, from Peterborough, is taking part at a Key Theatre event in the city, external on Thursday and bringing her play to the stage, external there in August. ', 'She said she wanted to ""subvert the media narrative around refugees and migrants at a prescient time in our history"".  ', 'The play Refugee! tells the story of four characters in search of belonging', 'Refugee Week runs from 17 to 23 June and aims to bring together people from different backgrounds to ""connect beyond labels"", external.', 'On Thursday, the Key Theatre is hosting a night of monologues, music and poetry, to pay tribute to ""all those who have been displaced"".', 'Meanwhile, her play Refugee! weaves together ""important interviews, conversations and real-life testimonies from the performers, migrant, refugee and sanctuary seeking communities"".', 'Ms Zia said: ""It\'s called Refugee! because everyone has an idea of what that means.', '""I want people to go in and be deprogrammed, then come out with a different understanding of the word."" ', 'The play had been created for ""people who do not think theatre is for them"", she said.', 'Inclusivity had been ""built into how we are devising and creating the play"", she added, with cast members and creatives in the production being first or second generation migrants to the UK.', '""This is creating new opportunities for culturally underserved communities in Britain whose stories are often not seen on stage and can be marginalised as artists off the stage,"" she said.', 'As a British Pakistani, Ms Zia said her interest in migration piqued during Brexit when she was ""shocked"" by how many people voted ""leave"". ', '""I would class myself as an economic migrant because my parents migrated in the \'70s and \'80s... so I was most shocked when I found people in migrant communities who came before were voting \'leave\'.', '""I was horrified. I just felt that I had to do something about this.""', 'She hoped her play could ""subvert the media narrative"" around refugees and migrants.', '""Post Brexit, and with the anti-immigration sentiments lingering to the next general election... we are currently witnessing a complete collapse of society, our civil liberties and basic human rights.""']"
401,"[""Petro's doctors say he should not sleep on the floor while undergoing chemotherapy "", 'A woman from Hounslow, west London, says a council has left her family in a ""severely overcrowded"" property, where her terminally ill stepfather is ""forced to sleep on the floor"". ', ""Irina's parents, Petro and Ulyana, fled Ukraine due to the war and joined her and her two daughters in their two-bedroom flat. "", 'Despite Petro\'s ongoing palliative care for pancreatic cancer, Irina says the council ""refuses"" to move them to a more suitable property, which can accommodate a hospital bed. ', 'Hounslow Council said it faced ""an acute shortage of larger homes"", but said it assessed all housing applications ""thoroughly"". ', 'Irina says caring for her stepfather while trying to work and fight the council is making her ill', 'Irina, who is caring for her stepfather, told BBC London that she had been trying to get her family moved for three-and-a-half years, but the situation had become even more urgent after her parents arrived in 2022 when they fled the war in Ukraine.', 'In that time, she said the council ""never took into account the terrible and complex situation of my multigenerational, vulnerable family"".', '""We are treated like animals,"" she said. ', 'She explained that all five family members in the property were now suffering with health problems due to the ""dire"" living conditions.', 'Her stepfather Petro is on his ""deathbed"", she said. ', 'Ulyana and Petro fled Ukraine due to the war and now live with their daughter and two granddaughters in a two-bedroom flat', 'She says letters from his hospital consultants were written to the council to support the family and to emphasise the need for better housing. ', 'Irina described how she was suffering with ill health with the stress of being a full-time carer, and trying to support the household.', '""I\'m doing everything I can,"" she said, adding: ""I\'ve been suffering chest pains lately.""', 'When Irina works from home she says her stepfather has no choice but to sit on the stairs as there is nowhere else to go', 'Irina explained that she had appealed on multiple occasions over the past three-and-a-half years for the council to help, but she was repeatedly turned down. ', 'As a result, in November 2023, the family instructed solicitors and took Hounslow Council to the High Court. ', 'A judge there ruled the council had acted unlawfully by not considering the family\'s needs properly and said it should have offered them an ""exceptional needs referral panel"". ', 'Following the judgement, Hounslow Council reconsidered the application, and in February ruled that the family were entitled to a four-bedroom property.', 'Since then, the family has been shown a three-bedroom property, which they said they felt was not suitable and would not accommodate a hospital bed. ', 'They were supported by a Hounslow Council\'s occupational therapist report which said: ""The housing OT does not recommend the property to be suitable for the family"". ']"
402,"['FODI is one of the charities organising events throughout the week', 'Events designed to show a city that asylum seekers and refugees are ""people worth welcoming"" are set to take place next week.', 'Refugee Week will see football tournaments, meals and walks take place across Sunderland from 17 to 23 June.', 'The events are being organised by charities from across the city, including the Friends of the Drop In For Asylum Seekers ad Refugees (FODI).', ""Steve Newman, FODI's chairperson, said the events were designed to create greater awareness in the community about refugee issues."", '""It\'s to give a platform to asylum seekers and refugees and to interact with members of the wider public,"" he said. ', '""And [to show] they are people who are worth welcoming.""', 'Mr Newman said Sunderland had welcomed refugees and asylum seekers', ""The first of the week's events will be a walk beginning at the city's Minster at 09:30 BST on Monday."", 'The walkers have been invited to wear colourful clothing during the walk, which will end with a picnic in Barnes Park.', 'A football tournament will take place on Tuesday while a cricket match will be played at Wearmouth Cricket Club on Wednesday.', '""A lot of the events are about sharing food,"" said Mr Newman.', '""That is about asylum seekers and refugees putting together meals from their cultures and sharing them with other asylum seekers and refugees and people from the local community.""', 'Mr Newman said over the years Sunderland has been welcoming to asylum seekers.', '""We are aware that the climate of public debate isn\'t always where we want it to be,"" he said. ', '""There are more negative voices in the public space than we would wish but in Sunderland there are no loud negatives voices.""']"
403,"['Refugees left Skipton due to high accommodation costs', 'All the refugees who arrived in a rural area of North Yorkshire as part of a government resettlement scheme have now left the area.', 'High rents and a lack of ""cultural ties"" have been cited as reasons why they have moved out of Craven, which includes the market towns of Skipton and Settle.', 'North Yorkshire Council said it preferred to place refugees in parts of the county where there were already communities from their country of origin or who spoke the same language.', 'A group of Syrian families who were given accommodation in Skipton as part of the UK Resettlement Scheme have now relocated, and although Afghan nationals have remained in Craven, they had not arrived via the same programme.', 'According to the Local Democracy Reporting Service, a total of 175 people from war-torn countries such as Iraq and Sudan have been placed in North Yorkshire through the scheme since 2021, and Harrogate has become a ""hub"" for the Syrian community, who have built their own mosque.', 'Ukrainian refugees, Hong Kong citizens or Afghans who worked for British forces are not included in the programme.', 'North Yorkshire Council’s assistant chief executive for local engagement, Rachel Joyce, said the authority’s focus was on providing “the most appropriate accommodation” once refugees arrived rather than spreading people evenly across the county.', 'Angie Pedley from the Craven District of Sanctuary support organisation said: “The council\xa0prefers to settle people into hubs.', '""They feel, and I can see the point, that people are happier if there are others around who speak the same language.', '“In Harrogate, they have events together and are in touch with one another.”', 'Ms Pedley also pointed to high accommodation costs in Skipton and Settle and a shortage of social housing.', 'Afghan families who have stayed in Craven include one who have launched pop-up restaurant evenings in the village of Embsay, serving cuisine from their home country.', 'Ms Pedley said a number of Ukrainian families she had worked with have also moved to more affordable areas of Lancashire.', '""There have been a fair number of Ukrainians welcomed to Craven, including to Settle and remote villages,"" she said.', '""Once they found their feet, most who wanted to rent independently went across to East Lancashire where rents are cheaper, like in Colne, Burnley and Barnoldswick.”']"
404,"['Norwich Cathedral has been awarded Cathedral of Sanctuary status', 'A cathedral has been given a new status in recognition of work to support asylum seekers and refugees.', 'Norwich Cathedral has been awarded Cathedral of Sanctuary status for the ""ongoing commitment"" of staff, and for being a ""welcoming place of safety for all"".', 'Since 2022, volunteers have held weekly English lessons for new migrants.', 'The stories of those that have attended classes are also now the subject of a new exhibition.', 'Rosie Sexton, a director at English+, the Christian charity which runs the lessons, said: ""People have loved coming to learn English in such an historic building in the heart of the city, and it has helped them gain a sense of belonging in Norwich.', '""Many former students now volunteer with us or are exploring other ways they can contribute to society in general.""', 'Beátriz and Nicolás say they left El Salvador after ""things became treacherous""', 'Beátriz and Nicolás took English lessons after arriving in Norwich from El Salvador. ', 'They shared their story for the new City of Strangers…City of Stories, external exhibition at Norwich Cathedral.', '""When you don\'t feel safe, your home is full of anxiety, but we have remained united,"" Nicolás said.', '""As a family, we now feel we are in the right place, in a safe place.""', 'Norwich Cathedral was also recognised by the Cathedral of Sanctuary panel, part of the City of Sanctuary, external movement, for work in supporting refugee families through the Hope into Action, external project - and its links with the homelessness charity, St Martins.', 'The exhibition, City of Strangers…City of Stories, runs until 30 June.']"
405,"['A total of 90 temporary homes have been constructed on the site of a former school in Llantwit Major', 'A new housing development in a seaside town has been compared to a prison by locals who say it has also been built too close to their homes.  ', 'A total of 90 temporary homes have been constructed on the site of a former school in Llantwit Major, Vale of Glamorgan.', 'The Vale council says it is for Ukrainian refugees and the site was allocated for housing in the local development plan (LDP), but residents with gardens backing on to it call it “overbearing”.', 'The council used permitted development rights in January 2023, meaning it did not have to seek further planning permission on the former Eagleswell Primary School site.', '“It looks like I’m living next door to a storage container yard,"" said Steve McGranaghan, a retired RAF engineer.', '""My biggest concern is they are too close to me. They should be 21 metres (69ft) away under planning guidelines and they\'re less than 10 metres (33ft) away.', ""“If they'd built 72 houses which is in the LDP, I'd have no issue. "", '""I’m not someone who says \'not in my back yard\'.”', 'Steve McGranaghan says the development has been built too close to his home', 'He claimed they would no longer be used for Ukrainian refugees.', '“Nobody has been able to challenge this,"" he said. “I volunteered to host a Ukrainian family, so we didn\'t have an issue at first.', ""“Now our concern is this won't be for housing Ukrainians, and it'll become housing stock and won't be temporary."", '“If there was a bad way to do something the Vale of Glamorgan council have chosen the worst possible way to do it.""', '“It looks like a prison, and it feels like a prison” says Dave Thomas,  from the action group', ""The council's planning committee was expected to consider the application for the site next month, but it was delayed until July due to the general election."", 'Residents opposing the development set up an action group and raised more than £7,000 in days to secure legal support.', '“It looks like a prison, and it feels like a prison,” said Dave Thomas, 61,  from the action group.', ""Mr Thomas, who has lived on Pembroke Place, next to the site, for 29 years with his family, said: “How can planning make a fair decision now, it feels pre-determined as they've already spent £25m on this."", '“They are not going to take them away after spending that much money on them.”', '“We thought it was going to help people fleeing their country and would be temporary.”', '“It looks like a prison, and it feels like a prison. And yet it was meant to be a welcoming place for refugees.”', ""“It's the least welcoming place.”"", 'Dave Thomas says the development is ""overbearing"" with the homes looking into his garden', 'The council said the units were temporary for five years and they could be easily removed and reused.', 'A spokesman said: “Development of the site commenced on 3 June 2023 and permitted development rights would be applicable for 12 months from this date. After this the development would be considered \'unauthorised.""', 'It said it was ""standard procedure in these circumstances is to wait for the outcome of the planning application before deciding next steps"".', 'The council said it was ""only right that in circumstances such as this elected members have the benefit of a comprehensive and detailed report with references to all material considerations and the views and opinions of adjoining residents before reaching a decision.', '“No families will move into the temporary homes until a decision has been made, and then only if planning approval is granted.”', 'Conservative Alun Cairns said there had been ""no consultation or engagement with the local community"" and it was ""a scandal they took the decision to develop this a week before Christmas in 2022 and told residents they’d use emergency powers to develop the site for Ukrainian refugees"".', 'Labour\'s Kanishka Narayan said he had listened closely to residents\' concerns on planning issues. He said he would be ""a strong champion for our community and will put these concerns first when engaging with the council planning committee on the issue"".', 'Plaid Cymru\'s Ian Johnson said he supported Wales being ""a nation of sanctuary"" and the application for the site would be decided by councillor after ""a site visit and a full and frank debate as to whether the development is in line with planning regulations”.', 'Liberal Democrat Steven Rajam said new developments had to be considered due to their impact on the community. But he said ""sadly it appears as though the Labour-dominated council have instead decided to go full steam ahead with reckless haste, leaving locals to pick up the pieces"".', 'Reform\'s Toby Rhodes-Matthews, said he was"" deeply disgusted with how the Eagleswell Site development has been handled"", leading to ""significant financial losses for local residents and has destroyed the harmony of what was once a happy and coherent neighbourhood"".', 'Stuart Field, of Abolish the Welsh Assembly Party, said: ""Nobody ever consults the people who have to live there it is just done behind closed doors. It’s about time the Welsh Senedd governed for the people of Wales rather than helping everybody else in the world.""', 'The Greens were also asked to comment.']"
406,"['Refugees and asylum seekers living across Hertfordshire were among those who contributed to the display ', 'People who fled their countries due to persecution or war have created an exhibition on the theme of home.', 'Forty asylum seekers from across Hertfordshire shared their artwork and writing in a project organised by Herts Welcomes Refugees, external.', 'Helen Singer, from the charity, said the feeling of home and ""being with your family came through very strongly"". ', 'The artworks are being displayed on the railings outside St Albans Museum + Gallery.', 'The museum organised workshops for participants where they created bunting and hung it up inside the building', ""Copies of the artwork have been displayed on the museum's railings and a digital display can also be seen on a screen inside the building "", 'The exhibition, called Visions of Home, has been organised to coincide with Refugee Week, external.', 'Ms Singer said the charity felt the week was an opportunity to talk about the refugees it supported and raise awareness about its work. ', '""But we didn\'t want people to feel sad about what they\'d left - that it\'s more than a physical place - and that comes across, it\'s a feeling,"" she said.', '""One of the quotes was lovely, saying, \'Home is a place of love where family come together\' and that feeling of being with your family came through very strongly.""', 'Many of the children created artwork that focuses on how their families are at the heart of their homes ', 'Contributors ranged in age from four to adults and came from at least 14 different countries. ', 'Ms Singer said she was ""incredibly impressed"" by the way the child refugees wrote ""such amazing English"" after just 18 months in the UK and the exhibition was designed to show ""the resilience of refugees"".', ""She added Herts Welcomes Refugees supported hundreds of refugees of all ages, who come and go across the county, as they are moved into different accommodation or are given leave to remain and evicted from their accommodation with 30 days' notice. "", ""Those supported include Afghans through the government's citizens resettlement scheme, external, Iranians, Albanians and Turkish Kurds."", '', 'Adults were also involved in the project and the exhibition will be on display throughout June']"
407,"['The council said refugees need help with learning about the local area', 'A Surrey council is calling for more volunteers to support refugee families integrate into the community, including assistance with using public transport and accessing health care.', 'Woking Borough Council said volunteers play a critical role in helping refugees overcome a number of challenges.', 'The council said more than 500 Syrian, Ukrainian and Afghan refugees had settled in Woking since 2015, having fled conflicts in their home countries.', 'Elspeth Andrews, the council’s voluntary sector co-ordinator, said: “Volunteer support will help refugees become independent, confident individuals who can flourish in their new lives here in Woking. ', '""Whether you have the odd day, morning, or hour to spare, it all helps make a positive impact.”', 'The borough council said duties included explaining how to use public transport, accessing health care, learning about the local area, connecting with community groups and offering interpreting assistance with their developing English language skills.', 'Ms Andrews added: “Volunteers are the heart and soul of our vibrant communities. ', '""Often unsung heroes, I am inspired every day by the hard work and dedication of those residents who go above and beyond giving up their own time for the benefit of others.""', 'Volunteers receive support from the council’s resettlement team and Volunteer Woking.', 'Applicants must undergo a DBS check and basic safeguarding and cultural awareness training before carrying out this role, the council said.']"
408,"['Azhagu and Mayur arrived in Rwanda from British territory Diego Garcia', 'A group of migrants was transferred to Rwanda from a remote UK territory by the British government over a year ago. They say they feel isolated and unsafe - with one describing the African country as an “open prison”.', 'With political parties divided over the government’s controversial plan to send asylum seekers from the UK to Rwanda, the BBC has travelled to the African state to speak to four of the migrants already there - albeit under a separate agreement - about their experience in the country.', 'The small group arrived from Diego Garcia, an island in the Indian Ocean. They say their complex medical needs, in some cases as the result of past rape and torture, are not being met in Rwanda. ', 'Each of them receives the equivalent of $50 (£39) a week for food and other essentials, but under the terms of their stay - agreed by the UK and Rwandan governments - they are not permitted to work.', 'All four say they have faced harassment and unwanted sexual advances on the street. They say they are, in effect, “self-imprisoned” - too scared to go out - while they wait for the UK to find somewhere permanent for them to live.', 'The group - all Sri Lankan Tamils - were transferred to Rwanda for urgent medical care after suicide attempts. They are now out of military hospital and living in two flats on the outskirts of the capital, Kigali, paid for by British authorities.', 'The UK is paying for the migrants to stay on the edge of Kigali', 'Their legal status in Rwanda is not the same as it would be for asylum seekers flown there from the UK - but a lawyer representing two of the four says their “negative experiences do raise serious concerns” about Rwanda’s ability to offer a safe haven for “very vulnerable refugees”.', 'A senior Rwandan official told the BBC she had “complete faith” in her country’s medical system and the migrants’ concerns about personal safety were not shared by others. “We  have a thriving foreign population here,” she added.', 'To protect their identities, migrants’ names have been changed', 'None of the four tried to enter the UK - instead they filed asylum claims on Diego Garcia, which is used as a secretive UK-US military base.', 'They were among dozens of people to arrive on the island in October 2021 - previously reported by the BBC. They said they had been fleeing persecution and trying to sail to Canada to claim asylum. ', 'The four we met in Rwanda said they had been victims of torture and sexual violence in their home countries - some because of past links with the Tamil Tiger rebels, who were defeated in Sri Lanka’s civil war 15 years ago.', 'Packed on their boat in 2021, the Tamils intended to sail to Canada', 'Down a quiet road, in a two-bedroom apartment, Azhagu says he has been diagnosed with severe post-traumatic stress disorder, and uncertainty about his future and the isolation are making things worse.', ""“We are not getting proper medical treatment. We have mental health issues,” says the 23-year-old. “Whenever we go and tell the doctors about our problems they can't help us.”"", 'Rwandan medical staff have shouted at him, he alleges, and on one occasion after self-harming, he says he was threatened with arrest and told to return to Diego Garcia.', ""Mayur, 26, who shares the apartment, says he has given up on counselling. He says he doesn't get proper medicine and doesn’t get to have “a good conversation”. “That’s why I don’t want to go to the hospital,” he adds."", 'Lawyer Tom Short, from UK firm Leigh Day, says an independent expert assessment found “each of our clients has complex medical needs which are not being met in Rwanda”.', 'We approached the military hospital where all the Tamils have been receiving treatment, but we were referred to the Rwandan government.', 'The top Rwandan official in charge of the deal to transfer asylum seekers from the UK, Doris Uwicyeza Picard, defended her country’s medical system - adding the migrants were being treated “to the best of our ability”.', 'The migrants’ safety concerns are not shared by anyone else, says official Doris Uwicyeza Picard ', 'Three of the migrants - the two young men and a woman, Lakshani - have had their claims for international protection approved by British Indian Ocean Territory (Biot) administration, which runs Diego Garcia. The United Nations and lawyers representing the group say this, in effect, gives them refugee status. The fourth in the group - Lakshani’s father, Khartik - has been permitted to accompany his daughter.', 'It means the group cannot be returned to Sri Lanka, but the UK has said it will not take them in. The Conservative government told the BBC last year that Biot “cannot be a backdoor to the UK”.', 'While Biot falls under British sovereignty, it is described as “constitutionally distinct”.', 'The group in Rwanda showed us legal documents, WhatsApp messages, emails and letters they had written over the past year to British officials, including Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, asking to be moved.', '“I don’t know how many more years we will have to live as stateless prisoners of the British government without freedom,” one message said.', 'The four also told us that harassment had left them frightened to leave their homes.', '“We don’t go outside. We’re always scared,” says Lakshani', 'In Lakshani’s apartment, a grey curtain is pulled across the barred windows - shutting the room off from the outside world.', '“We don’t go outside. We’re always scared,” the 23-year-old told us when we visited her and Khartik, 47. “I don’t have any women here. No friends.”', 'Both say there have been a number of attempted break-ins at their apartment. They show us videos that appear to show intruders being caught by neighbours.', 'They also recalled one incident on a nearby street, when, they say, a group of men had separated them and tried to touch Lakshani while using “very inappropriate words”.', 'The experience, and others like it, had been triggering for the pair, they said. Lakshani says she was previously sexually assaulted both in Sri Lanka and on Diego Garcia.', 'Azhagu told us he and Mayur had also been propositioned in the street. “Strangers came and asked ‘can I have sex with you?’ People were laughing. We ran to the hospital.”', 'They both reported their concerns to Crown Agents, a non-profit international development company that works with the UK government and serves as the migrants’ main point of contact in Rwanda.', 'All four told us Crown Agents had not taken their complaints seriously.', '“They asked me: ‘Why are you going out when you know you will get into trouble?’” says Azhagu, recalling one of the conversations with the company. “I asked them: ‘Why are you keeping us here when you know there is trouble?’ They didn’t respond.”', 'Crown Agents did not respond to specific allegations when approached for comment by the BBC.', 'Lawyers representing the group said they had raised multiple incidents of street harassment and break-ins with Biot officials, who had not “substantively responded”.', 'The Biot administration did not respond to requests for comment.', 'The migrants set sail from India, were rescued by the UK Navy, and then taken to Diego Garcia', 'The four told us they had not approached Rwandan police for help. They all said they distrusted uniformed law enforcement based on past experiences of abuse.', 'The senior Rwandan official, Ms Picard, said she was “not sure how we can help if the national authorities have not been approached”.', ""“[The migrants’] concerns about their safety are not shared by anybody. Not by Rwandans, not residents,” she told the BBC. “It  breaks my heart to hear that somebody may not feel safe in this  country, especially when we've worked very hard to make this country safe for everyone.”"", 'The UK government’s foreign travel advice says crime levels are relatively low in Rwanda, but there are cases of burglary, theft, bag-snatching and mugging in Kigali.', 'Khartik and Lakshani say their living situation in Rwanda is better than it was in the Diego Garcia camp', 'The Tamils acknowledged they have had positive interactions in Rwanda but say the negative experiences have compounded past trauma and left them frightened.', 'Lakshani and Khartik said their living situation in Rwanda was an improvement from the Diego Garcia camp, where they had slept in tents in a rat-infested camp, had limited phone access, and could not cook their own meals.', 'There is a fifth Tamil who remains in Rwanda after also being flown from Diego Garcia following a suicide attempt. He is still pursuing a claim for international protection. The BBC has spoken to him on the phone, as he is currently in the military hospital and not allowed to leave.', 'The BBC has seen a letter formally discharging him - saying he should be treated as an outpatient. He says he is being held against his will after refusing to return to Diego Garcia. His lawyer has called on Biot to secure a solution for him.', 'The four migrants we met have been told that, if they do not wish to remain in Rwanda, they can return to the Diego Garcia camp until being resettled in a “safe third country”.', 'The Foreign Office did not respond to BBC questions about whether Rwanda was being considered as a “safe third country” to permanently resettle the group.', 'When we asked the migrants about the British government’s plan to use Rwanda to process and house some asylum seekers from the UK, all said they had concerns. “Those refugees will endure the same difficulties and hardship we face,” one said.']"
409,"['Lilian Seenoi-Barr was presented with the chains of office on Monday evening', 'Lilian Seenoi-Barr has made history after becoming Northern Ireland’s first black mayor, and only the third on the island of Ireland.', 'She was installed as mayor of Derry City and Strabane at a special council meeting on Monday evening.', 'Ms Seenoi-Barr, who arrived in Londonderry 14 years ago as a refugee from Kenya, said it was an honour to become first citizen.', 'A crowd of about 300 people assembled inside the Guildhall to watch Ms Seenoi-Barr receive the mayoral chain of office.', 'Among those in attendance were family and friends of Ms Seenoi-Barr, a delegation of Kenyan political representatives and members from various ethnic minority groups from across the island of Ireland.', 'Separately, the new lord mayor of Belfast is Councillor Micky Murray who describes himself as the first “openly gay” first citizen of the city.', 'Mr Murray, from the Alliance Party, said it was ""an important milestone for my community"". ', ""It has been quite a journey from Ms Seenoi-Barr's native Narok in southern Kenya to Londonderry's Guildhall."", 'Following her instillation as mayor, she said she came to the city in search of a better life.', '“If you told me that I would become the first citizen of the second city, I would not have believed you,"" she told the chamber. ', 'Ms Seenoi-Barr has been a councillor for the Foyleside ward since 2021 when she was co-opted by the Social Democratic and Labour Party.', 'A fall-out over the mayoral selection process, which led to two party colleagues resigning, and racist abuse including death threats followed the announcement of Ms Seenoi-Barr being chosen for the role.', 'She said the “anti-immigrant sentiment” that spread on social media was a “reminder of the issues we face as a community” but it was “not reflective of people in this district”.', '“I have witnessed the warmth and kindness of the Derry that I know and have loved with all my heart, through the kindness of strangers and the outpouring of solidarity and support,"" she said.', 'Ms Seenoi-Barr said she was committed to working hard for the entire community.', 'She said she would be “one who is accessible and one who will lead with hope”.', '""It is our time to build a more inclusive, prosperous and vibrant Derry City and Strabane District Council, under the banner of unity and progressive change,"" she said.', '""Thank you for your trust, your time and your support. Together let’s embrace our differences and build a new future together.”', 'Lilian Seenoi-Barr came to Derry in 2010 with her son Brian', 'Ms Seenoi-Barr had already made history last year when she became the first black politician to be elected to any public office in Northern Ireland. ', 'She retained her seat in the Foyleside ward with a victory in the 2023 election.', 'She came to Derry in 2010 with her son Brian and was granted refugee status.', 'Prior to that, her work in her native Kenya involved helping women and girls from the Massai tribe challenge the traditional tribal practices of early marriage and female genital mutilation.', 'It was work, she said, that came with ""a lot of risk"".', 'Ms Seenoi-Barr\'s son, Brian, has autism. She said, as his mother, she was concerned by the ""many misconceptions and negative beliefs"" around the condition in Africa.', 'That, coupled with the threats she had received, prompted Ms Seenoi Barr to leave Kenya.', 'Her experience as a refugee led her to set up her own charity, the North West Migrants Forum, in 2012 which supports migrants and asylum seekers.', 'She was involved in organising the June 2020 Black Lives Matter protests in Guildhall Square.', 'Andy George said Ms Seenoi Barr was a ""beacon of hope""', ""For those from a minority ethnic background in Northern Ireland, Monday's mayoral appointment is seen as a landmark moment in terms of representation and visibility in public office."", 'Andy George joined the Royal Ulster Constabulary in 1999 and is in his second term as president of the National Black Police Association.', 'He is the first Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) officer to hold the role.', 'There are just over 40 PSNI officers from ethnic minority backgrounds in a police service of just under 7,000 people.', '""Lilian becoming mayor is a beacon of hope for the future and long overdue"" he said.', '""We have one of the most under-represented police services anywhere in the UK.', '""The visibility of a mayoral role allows others from ethnic backgrounds to see how they can thrive.', '""If you see it, you can be it. This is a moment in history"".', 'Beverly Simpson said it was a ""landmark moment""', ""Derry nurse Beverly Simpson said seeing Northern Ireland's first black mayor was highly emotional."", '""It means everything. It means difference, change, inclusion, diversity and acceptance,"" she said.', '""I came to NI in 2005 and there weren’t many other black people.', '""To see the growth from then until now with political inclusion is very significant.', '""It’s a big journey for Northern Ireland.""', 'Jada said the news would ""inspire others to get into politics""', ""Beverly's 15-year-old daughter Jada agreed."", '""I feel so happy about it,"" she said.', '""When I was younger and even now, you rarely see black people represented at all so for a black woman to be become mayor is a really big step.', '""I feel it will inspire others to get into politics and positions of influence and help Northern Ireland become a better place.""', 'Mukesh Chugh said he was ""delighted""', 'Derry doctor Mukesh Chugh also works as a community volunteer in the city.', '""This is a testament to the progress Northern Ireland has made in embracing diversity,"" he said.', '""I am delighted to see a step forward for better representation.', '""I hope this period will be remembered not only for the first ethnic minority mayor but also one of the best mayors for the city"".', 'Micky Murray describes himself as the first “openly gay” lord mayor of Belfast', 'The top positions at Belfast City Hall rotate annually. They are largely ceremonial and date back to 1892. ', ""Mr Murray, from the Alliance Party, replaces Sinn Féin's Ryan Murphy as Belfast's new lord mayor."", 'On receiving the chain of office, Mr Murray said it was a ""particularly symbolic"" day and ""an important milestone for my community”.', 'As the outgoing lord mayor left office, tributes were paid to Mr Murphy from across the chamber.', 'The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) described him as being “very fair and even-handed” in how he chaired meetings.']"
410,"['Manar fled the war in Syria and said football helped him to forget his problems', 'A new football campaign has been launched to support refugees and raise awareness of their plights.', 'The Fair Shot initiative aims to provide a safe space for people who have fled to the UK due to war or persecution in their home countries.', 'Wolverhampton Wanderers helped to set up the project, which saw the formation of Fair Shot FC.', 'The squad is made up of players from Afghanistan, El Salvador, Honduras, Mexico, Namibia, Senegal, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Syria and The Gambia.', 'Next season, Wolves is set to host a competition for their fans to train and play side by side with Fair Shot FC in a friendly five-a-side match.', '""It\'s everything, it\'s like a dream. I feel nothing when I play football, so when I don\'t play, I feel everything, like the problems. When I play, the problems go away, ” said Manar, 25, a Fair Shot FC player who fled the war in Syria.', 'Tom Warren, head of the Wolves Foundation, said: “We know the power football has to transcend borders and bring people together on and off the pitch. ', '""Everyone should have the chance to play and enjoy the beautiful game, in the same way everyone deserves the right to be treated with kindness and compassion. We at Wolves, and our fans strongly believe in that.”', 'Fair Shot FC is made up of players from 10 different countries', 'The players for Fair Shot FC have been selected from Refugee Council’s Youth Connect project and grassroots organisations that run football programmes across Essex, Surrey and Preston. ', 'They will be led by coach David Simmons who runs Changing Lives FC, based in Harlow, Essex, the only competitive refugee football team in the UK.', 'Mr Simmons will be assisted by Liubov Liushnenko, a refugee from Ukraine, who now plays for AFC Sudbury Women’s First Team and coaches with Changing Lives.', 'She said: ""Football is about fairness, and this is something I have felt from the British people who have welcomed me here. ', '""I hope this can be extended to everyone, who through no fault of their own have had to leave their homes to find peace here in the UK.”']"
411,"['An ariel view of RAF Wethersfield in Essex which has been used to house asylum seekers since summer 2023 ', ""A council has dropped its legal fight against the Home Office's use of a former RAF site to house people seeking asylum."", ""Refugees have been living at Wethersfield airfield in Essex since July 2023 and Braintree District Council said it does not agree with the Home Office's decision."", 'But the council withdrew from the Judicial Review appeal after the Home Office laid a Special Development Order (SDO) in parliament.', 'The order means the government has planning permission for the site to be used for asylum accommodation for the next three years with up to six months of decommissioning.', 'Following the SDO, a council spokesperson said the public body had to look at the costs incurred from legal action and how it added to the council budget pressures and resources.', '']"
412,"['The family discovered the tax band of their home had also increased and they had to pay £1,000 in backdated council tax bills', 'A family have been left confused and ""financially worse off"" after the garage in which they housed Ukrainian refugees was given a council tax band.', 'The garage and space above it in Melbourn, Cambridgeshire, was built before the family bought their home and was used for storage and an office.', 'It was made into a liveable space to house Ukrainian refugees and was reported to the Valuation Office Agency (VOA) as a ""self-contained annexe"" by South Cambridgeshire District Council.', 'The family must now pay council tax on their garage and the band of their own home was raised. The council said it had asked for an ""urgent review"" of the taxing decision.', 'Andy Kulina said: ""Like most families we don\'t have a lot of spare money. We saw an opportunity [to help refugees] that didn\'t require much time or money and there was space in my office.""', 'A council communities team visited the space to ensure it was suitable for someone to live in under the Homes for Ukraine scheme, which enabled UK sponsors to register to host Ukrainian refugees for at least six months.', 'A family of three moved in and shared utilities, the garden, letterbox, washing line and the driveway with the host family.', '""Their child is about the same age as my daughter, so they play together,"" said Mr Kulina.', '""They\'re living in our house, so they don\'t pay council tax because it is all one property.""', 'Under the Homes for Ukraine Scheme, the government said hosts would not be made financially worse off ', 'Under the scheme, council tax should be paid by the hosts or refugees for ""self-contained accommodation"".', 'Mr Kulina said his garage and the space above it had never previously been classed as ""self-contained"". It was, he said, part of his home and there had never been any mention of a separate tax.', 'A letter addressed to ""The Annex"" was received and contained a council tax bill for more than £3,000, backdated to November 2022 when the Ukrainian family had arrived.', '""That address doesn\'t exist,"" said Mr Kulina. ""It is a garage with a loft conversion that was here when we bought the house in 2007.""', 'Two letters from the VOA followed to notify ""The Annex"" that the property was in band A and the main house had been moved from band F to G.', 'The council said it had a duty to inform the agency when it became aware of a self-contained annexe not banded for council tax.', 'It said the decision to tax it was taken by the VOA.', 'The part-converted garage has long area in the loft with a toilet and a sink downstairs, and the garage at the front is used for storage', 'Mr Kulina said he had appealed against the decision. ', 'He added he had been in contact with people in both local and national government, but had been unable to speak to a ""senior government official to help rectify the situation"".', 'South Cambridgeshire Council said it had written a letter to support Mr Kulina.', '""We made something liveable on request of the government,"" Mr Kulina said. ""The use of the property was temporary. ', '""Now they are moving on, it will revert to use as an office and we will have to pay two council tax bills.', '""By doing this kind act and participating in Homes for Ukraine we got to a situation where we\'re financially worse off and neither local nor national government are helping to rectify the situation.', '""No-one with authority is owning the task of fighting for us.""', 'A council spokesperson said the authority had asked the government for an urgent review, adding: ""When the government launched the Homes for Ukraine scheme, they stated that hosts would not be financially worse off because of providing a home to refugees at their time of greatest need.', '""Our view is that council tax banding on an annexe like this should be paused when a Homes for Ukraine guest is being hosted. We have not yet had a response.""', 'A VOA spokesperson appreciated it was a ""challenging situation for the homeowner"", but said it had a legal duty to assign a council tax band to ""any property capable of being lived in, including self-contained units connected to a main property"".']"
413,"['Alia and her children fled from Syria to Lebanon', ""The plight of Syrian refugees - and the pressing needs of their host countries - is being discussed by EU foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday. Millions of Syrians still live outside the country, displaced by the war. Most are in Lebanon - but anti-refugee sentiment is growing there, as BBC Arabic's Carine Torbey reports from Beirut."", '""We live in constant fear and anxiety,"" says Alia. ""Every evening when my son comes back home, his youngest brother hugs him - relieved that he hasn\'t been arrested"".', 'The 43-year old lives with three of her four children in Lebanon. They fled from their home in Idlib, northern Syria, one year after war broke out in 2011.', 'An estimated 1.5 million Syrians live in Lebanon, out of an estimated population of just over 5.3 million, making it the country with the highest proportion of refugees in the world.', ""Anti-refugee sentiment in the country is not new, but it has increased significantly in the last few years, following the start of Lebanon's economic crisis in 2019. "", 'In April, that hostility boiled over when a figure in a major Christian party was abducted and killed - a crime police blamed on a gang made up mainly of Syrians. ', 'Mobs of vigilantes sought retribution, with innocent Syrians beaten and humiliated on the streets. ', ""According to the UNHCR, 80% of Syrians don't have legal residency in Lebanon"", ""Even before April's violence, local authorities and self-appointed community groups evicted Syrians without legal residency from their shelters, shut businesses where they worked or pressured Lebanese not to rent them houses. "", '""Lebanon has offered more than it can afford to the Syrian refugees,"" says North Lebanon Governor Ramzi Nohra, who has been overseeing evictions of Syrians staying illegally in dwellings or compounds.  ""You can host a neighbour for a day or two but not forever."" ', ""Mr Nohra denies being anti-refugee, and says he's just implementing the law."", '""Would any country accept that you overstay your visa? We welcome Syrians who have the right documents, and our actions are only against those who are staying illegally in the country"". ', ""According to the UN refugee agency, the UNHCR, 80% of Syrians don't have legal residency, which means they could be arrested and deported at any moment. "", 'It also says nine out of 10 are living in extreme poverty, however many Lebanese believe Syrians in the country are propped up by aid provided by the UNHCR and its partners. Some even think they benefit directly from it.', 'Anti-Syrian sentiment has led many refugees in Lebanon to seek a life elsewhere', '""I started overhearing people at places like the supermarket or the street saying: Look at the Syrians. They are living the good life while we can\'t afford anything in our own country"", says Alia. ""If only they knew what kind of life we live"". ', 'EU commissioner Ursula Von Der Leyen visited Lebanon on May 2, to announce a one-billion-euro aid package to the country. ', 'This was widely seen in Lebanon as a bribe to keep the Syrian refugees on its soil, by cracking down on illegal immigration towards Europe. ', ""Days afterwards, Lebanon's parliament issued a recommendation to the government urging it to take all measures to deal with Syrians who are in the country illegally. "", 'It was the first time that a political consensus emerged over this issue. ', 'The official position of Lebanon is that large swathes of Syria have become safe for the refugees to return to and that the UN agencies should encourage this return by providing aid inside Syria, rather than encouraging them to stay away from their country by giving them aid in Lebanon. ', 'MPs set a one-year deadline for the government to ensure ""the return of the Syrians who have entered and reside illegally in Lebanon to their country"". ', 'Across many parts of Lebanon, billboards have emerged showing a picture of what appears to be a refugee child with the message: ""UNDO the damage"".', 'The UN has told the BBC ""there is no international conspiracy to keep Syrian refugees in Lebanon""', 'The person behind the campaign - a Lebanese art director - confirmed to the BBC that it was a personal initiative. ', 'He felt he needed to do something about the ""refugee crisis"", seen by many Lebanese as posing an existential threat to the country.', 'But regardless of who funds this campaign, its message echoes what has become a widespread narrative in the country - refugees are seen as ""damaging"" and the UN is partly responsible.', 'Contacted by the BBC, the UNHCR in Lebanon said: ""There is no international conspiracy to keep Syrian refugees in Lebanon and there is no hidden agenda on this. ', '""We have always been very transparent on our position: The United Nations, including UNHCR, does not hinder the return of refugees to Syria.""', 'But some refugees have already decided to seek a life elsewhere. Cyprus, just a few hundred kilometres away across the Mediterranean Sea, has seen a 27-fold increase in the number of Syrian refugees coming from Lebanon, according to its ministry of interior. ', 'Around a month ago, Alia and her children were among 35 people on a boat to the island, hoping to join her husband and fourth child who made the same illegal journey a year ago.  ', 'They made it to Cypriot waters but the coastguard forced their boat to return. ', ""Despite all the risks that this trip entailed, Alia says she wasn't afraid to take it, believing her children have no future in Lebanon."", '""What could have happened?"" she says. ""We could have died. I am dead either way, here or there"". ']"
414,"['Rizwan Rahemtulla said it was ""a very, very proud moment"" when he was appointed the first Muslim deputy lord lieutenant for Cambridgeshire ', 'A former refugee who arrived in England in 1972 unable to speak English said it was ""an absolute honour"" to become a deputy lord lieutenant.', 'Rizwan Rahemtulla is the first Muslim to be appointed to carry out the ceremonial duties in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough. ', ""Deputy lord lieutenants represent Lord Lieutenant Julie Spence, who is the King's representative in the county."", 'Mr Rahemtulla, who lives in Peterborough, said he sees his appointment as ""a huge plus"" for ""the wider Muslim community"". ', '', 'The former child refugee says he ""feels as if I am walking on the air when I put on the [lord lieutenant\'s] uniform""', 'His ceremonial duties will include greeting and accompanying royal members and heads of state on official visits to the county, the presentation of honours and awards and involvement in citizenship ceremonies.', 'Mr Rahemtulla works for Cambridgeshire Constabulary as an operational trainer, delivering or facilitating courses for newly-promoted sergeants and inspectors.', 'He said: ""Being the first Muslim is a proud moment for me - and certainly my dad is very proud of me - and I\'m sure the community, when they find out, will be saying, \'well done, you\'ve achieved something positive for us\'.', '""It also reflects my faith because I believe that what I am doing is to be able to influence positiveness for all communities and that\'s what my faith wants from me - to speak goodness and kindness.""', 'He was born in Uganda and was four years old when he became a refugee. ', 'After about 12 years living in Scotland, Mr Rahemtulla moved to Peterborough, where he is the president of the Husaini Islamic Centre, chair for UNISON’s Self-Organised Black Members Group (Police & Justice Branch) and executive member of the Peterborough Inter-Faith Council, as well as being involved in charity work. ', '']"
415,"['Crowds gathered in Guildhall Sqaure to welcome Little Amal ', 'Londonderry has welcomed a giant puppet of a child refugee to the city during the latest leg of her tour of Northern Ireland.', ""Hundreds of people greeted Little Amal, a 10-year-old Syrian refugee whose name means 'hope' in Arabic, to the city on Monday afternoon."", 'Created by the Handspring Puppet Company, she stands at 12ft (3.7m) tall.', 'Artistic director, and Amal’s creator, Adrian Kohler said she represents the world’s many “isolated children, parentless children”.', 'She is raising awareness about the plight of child refugees.', '""She does not speak, she does not understand English,"" he explained. ', '""The audience projects onto her their knowledge of a child that may be abandoned or in need of assistance. That’s how we hope she works.""', 'Amal is the centrepiece of a performance art project, The Walk.', 'Organisers of the project say it aims to highlight the stories of the millions of displaced refugee children she represents.', ""Little Amal's visit began by crossing the city's Peace Bridge"", 'She began her visit to Derry at Ebrington Square before making her way across the Peace Bridge to the Guildhall and onto Free Derry Corner.', 'Last week Amal spent four days in Belfast. ', 'She goes to Newcastle next and then Newry before crossing the border to Dundalk and, eventually, Dublin.', 'Since 2021 she has visited 15 countries including Turkey, Greece, Ukraine, Italy, France and the US, and toured 160 towns.', 'She has, however, not been welcomed everywhere and was met with protests in Greece.']"
416,"['Little Amal made her way into Belfast down Donegall Quay on Thursday evening', 'A 12ft (3.7m) puppet of a 10-year-old Syrian refugee has arrived in Belfast. ', 'Little Amal will make her way across the city from 16-19 May before moving on to Londonderry.', 'She is the centrepiece of a performance art project, The Walk, and has come to symbolise human rights and bring hope, according to the project.', 'Little Amal was created to represent the story of young refugees travelling from war-torn Syria highlighting the difficulties they face trying to reach safety.', 'The puppet docked at Donegall Quay in Belfast at 18:30 BST on Thursday. ', 'Since 2021 Little Amal has visited 15 countries including Turkey, Greece, Ukraine, Italy, France and the US, and toured 160 towns.', 'She has, however, not been welcomed everywhere and was met with protests in Greece.', ""Her arrival into Northern Ireland is a signature event in Belfast City Council's Belfast 2024 programme."", 'She will be in Belfast for four days and will traverse the city visiting peace walls in the west, CS Lewis Square in the east and attending a host of community events and art installations in between.', 'Hundreds of people gathered along Donegall Quay to see Little Amal docking in Belfast.', ""Some used Belfast's 'Big Fish' to get a better look"", ""The creative director for Amal's visit, Des Kennedy, is was eagerly awaiting Amal's arrival in the city"", ""Little Amal, whose name means 'hope' in Arabic, was created by the Handspring Puppet Company - the firm behind the puppet horses featured in the War Horse stage play."", ""Des Kennedy, the creative director for Amal's visit to Belfast, has worked on many theatre projects including Harry Potter and The Cursed Child. "", ""He said Amal's journey was a completely different experience. "", '""For me as somebody who was born and grew up in Belfast, it is really brilliant to be able to do a large event at this scale.', '""To show that we are a world-class city that can produce massive, impressive and impactful art - it is fantastic,"" he told BBC News NI. ', ""Belfast's Lord Mayor Ryan Murphy was among the first to welcome Amal to the city"", 'Amal was greeted by Lord Mayor of Belfast Ryan Murphy. ', 'He told BBC News NI that he hoped her arrival in Northern Ireland would send out a positive message that Belfast was a welcoming place.', '""Belfast has been known as being a city of sanctuary. We are very proud that Belfast has opened its doors and welcomed so many people in, people who now call the city of Belfast their home,"" he said.', 'This video can not be played', 'Watch Little Amal ahead of the start of her Irish tour', ""Alice Evans, associate producer for The Walk Productions, said Amal's story had been welcomed across the world. "", '""Amal has met with so many different people, from those in power to those who have been through the same journey.', '""She represents joy and everything that she can bring with that - she\'s been met by so many welcoming and great people,"" she said. ', 'Alice said Amal represents joy and she brings it with her everywhere she goes ', 'Producer David Lan, who has travelled with Little Amal since 2021, said the public interest had been unexpected.', '""It\'s been a surprise,"" he said. ""When we started it, it was a little idea after meeting people in refugee camps in Calais.', '""All of a sudden we were being invited by countries all over the world - a really tremendous number of people come out to see her.""', 'Adrian said Amal had to be larger than life-sized so she could stand out in the crowd', 'The designer of Little Amal, Adrian Kohler, said the decision on her size was poignant.', '""She needed to be bigger than life-sized so that when she walked into a crowd you could still see her even with a lot of people - her height was quite critical.""', ""And when it came to Amal's clothes, Mr Kohler said there was a lot of discussion."", '""I think I made about 36 different colour choices - before that was settled,"" he said.', 'The LGBT asylum seeker charity, Rainbow Refugees, also welcomed Little Amal', 'Niamh Rowan from the LGBT asylum seeker charity, Rainbow Refugees, said that the majority of people in Northern Ireland supported refugees.', '""I think people see day-to-day that the people of Northern Ireland are welcoming,"" she said.', '""There are things in the media and there\'s the situation with Rwanda, but to see the regular people of Northern Ireland coming out to support - I think it means a lot to the refugee communities.""', 'During her journey across Europe she shook hands with the Pope at the Vatican and trekked along the white cliffs of Dover to highlight the plight of young refugees.', 'But she has not been welcomed everywhere on her worldwide journey.', 'In August 2021, protestors in Larissa, Greece threw stones, external as she walked the streets. Local councillors in the country also voted to ban her visiting a village of Orthodox monasteries, and protests held in Athens forced her route to be diverted.', 'In Calais – the French port city which housed the so-called Jungle camp for migrants until 2016 – the mayor also objected to her visit.', 'Little Amal, whose aim is to “rewrite the narrative about refugees”, comes to the island of Ireland in the context where migration is in the headlines.', 'In April, Ireland’s Justice Minister Helen McEntee claimed more than 80% of those seeking asylum in the state had crossed the border from Northern Ireland.  Ireland has approved plans to redesignate the UK as a “safe country” to which asylum seekers can be returned.', 'Rishi Sunak’s Illegal Migration Act – which plans to send some asylum seekers to Rwanda – also passed through parliament last month.', 'However earlier this week, a High Court judge in Belfast ruled that large parts of the act should not apply in Northern Ireland as they breach human rights laws. Interim Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) leader Gavin Robinson said the unequal application of immigration laws could leave Northern Ireland to become a “magnet” for asylum seekers.', ""Each event will move Amal's story along as she meets people and places each day. "", ""On Friday she will walk through parts of the city centre, visiting Belfast's peace walls and the Cathedral Quarter, before a night of theatrical local music in St Anne's Cathedral."", 'Over the weekend, the puppet will parade to City Hall and see all four corners of the city.', 'On Monday she will visit Derry before travelling south to appear in Newcastle and Newry on Wednesday, before crossing the border to Dundalk and, eventually, Dublin.']"
417,"['This video can not be played', 'A 12ft (3.7m) puppet of a 10-year-old Syrian refugee is on her way to Northern Ireland. ', 'Little Amal was created to represent the story of young refugees travelling from war-torn Syria, highlighting the difficulties they face trying to reach safety.', 'The puppet will dock at Donegall Quay in Belfast at 18:30 BST on Thursday.', 'BBC News NI got preview of Amal in action before her arrival. ', 'Click here to read more.']"
418,"['Elango and Manchula Elavalakan celebrated at a reception at Ipswich Town Hall', ""A town's new mayor is a refugee from Sri Lanka who will be the first Hindu to hold the position."", ""Labour councillor\xa0Elango\xa0Elavalakan has taken over the ceremonial role after a unanimous vote at Ipswich Borough Council's annual meeting."", '""I\'m so happy today, and very proud to be mayor of this great town,"" said Mr Elavalakan.', 'Council leader Neil MacDonald, who proposed the nomination, said Mr Elavalakan would get to read out a general election result during his year in office.', 'Town sergeant Andrew Beal removed the civic robes and chain from outgoing mayor Lynne Mortimer and dressed the new mayor', '""The announcement by a refugee who fled war and persecution, and who has made a new life and contributed to society here, will send a message,"" he said.', ""Members of Ipswich's Hindu community attended Wednesday evening's ceremony, with celebrations at the nearby temple planned for later in the week."", 'Dr Sachin Karale, chair of Ipswich Hindu Samaj, said: ""It shows the great diversity and multiculturalism of Ipswich town that a Hindu man is becoming mayor. I\'m really proud.""', ""Mr Elavalakan's wife, Manchula Elavalakan, will be his consort."", 'The mayor\'s theme for the year will be ""support and wellbeing"" with his two chosen charities Genesis Orwell Mencap and Cancer Support Suffolk.', '', 'Having left Sri Lanka, Mr Elavalakan lived and worked in India, Uganda and Rwanda before moving to the UK.', 'He initially moved to Ilford in east London, before moving to Ipswich in 2006.', '""When I came for one project here, in Ipswich, I felt the people were very friendly,"" he said.', '""So I decided, Ipswich is my home town.""', ""He became a Labour councillor for St John's ward in 2014."", '""Having lived in many different countries and experienced many different lifestyles, I have always been interested in helping those that need it,"" he said.', '""I am passionate about empowering communities and representing those in need.""', 'Mr Elavalakan is not the first Ipswich mayor from the Indian sub-continent, however.', 'Kavas Jamas Bashah was born in Mumbai and was a senior officer of the Indian Civil Service.', 'He retired to Ipswich and became mayor in 1925.', 'The town elected its first mayor, Benjamin Brame, external, in 1836 following the Municipal Corporations Act the previous year which reformed local government and made Ipswich a municipal borough.', 'Its first female mayor was Mary Whitmore, external, in 1946. ', ""She was a suffragette and member of Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU), and was made MBE in 1951 for her contribution to public services."", 'Mary Whitmore\xa0was described as ""a socialist, pacifist, and internationalist""', ""Albert Grant became Ipswich's first black councillor and mayor of Ipswich in 1995."", 'He moved to the UK in 1955 at the age of 21 and has dedicated his life to tackling racism and fighting to secure equality and justice.', 'He was awarded an OBE in 2000 for his services to ethnic minorities and in 2021 received an honorary degree from the University of Suffolk.', 'Albert Grant was given an honorary degree by the University of Suffolk in 2021']"
419,"['The Guildhall, in Hull, is the headquarters of Hull City Council', 'A total of 50 people forced to flee their home countries will be resettled in Hull in 2024 and 2025.', 'It is part of a pledge by Hull City Council to welcome people who have arrived in the UK under refugee resettlement programmes.', 'The commitment to take the refugees is set to attract an estimated £1.026m in Home Office funding.', 'Councillor Rob Pritchard from Hull City Council said the area had a proud history of welcoming refugees.', 'The decision is in line with Hull’s City of Sanctuary status, which has built up a local network of groups who support new arrivals.', 'The council is set to contribute £14,352 towards the Children and Families Wellbeing Service as part of the resettlements, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service .', 'The Wellbeing Service, which has been running since 2018, supports children with therapy to help them recover from trauma.', 'It also provides families with specialist interpreters and mental health practitioners.', 'Support to get refugees into work will also be expanded, including with a new Hull Refugee Employability Forum.', 'Mr Pritchard said grant funding would be used to support the integration of those arriving in Hull.', 'He said: ""When there is turmoil in the world and people are being displaced, it is important that we help in this humanitarian endeavour and so I support the council agreeing to resettle and support the refugees.', '“There is an identified need for specialist employment and wellbeing support and I support the proposal to use funding for the schemes.”']"
420,"['This video can not be played', 'A woman who moved from to the UK from Cameroon has become the first ever boxer to join an international team of refugees fighting for medals at the next Olympics in Paris. ', 'Cindy Ngamba, aged 26, moved to Bolton from the west African nation 16 years ago. ', 'She cannot compete for Team GB as she still does not have British citizenship, so has instead qualified for the International Olympic Federation’s Refugee Team. ', 'With fewer than 100 days to go until Paris, she said she was hoping to inspire other refugees.']"
421,"['The cafe will be housed at Pendle Business Centre', 'A charity which supports refugees and asylum seekers has launched an internet cafe to help them develop their IT skills.', 'Pendle New Neighbours in East Lancashire has opened the computer hub at the Pendle Business Centre on Commercial Road in Nelson.', 'The project was paid for using a grant of almost £80,000 from the National Lottery Community Fund.', 'Pendle MP Andrew Stephenson said the charity did ""such valuable work"" and the grant would allow them to do ""even more"".', 'The charity said the money will fund two part-time supervisors and the purchase of eight computers.', 'A representative said it was hoped that learning basic computer skills would help asylum seekers and refugees in Pendle improve their self-confidence and life opportunities.', 'They added that the sessions would provide information about education and jobs and allow people to check travel arrangements, explore local activities and communicate with family and friends.', 'Pendle New Neighbours, which was established seven years ago when the first Syrian families arrived in the area, has grown rapidly over the past couple of years and registered as a charity in 2023.', 'The cafe will be open every weekday from 13:00 to 16:00.']"
422,"['The initiative offered art sessions for adults and children', 'An exhibition showcasing artwork made by refugees has opened.', 'Epsom and Ewell Borough Council launched an initiative to offer art sessions for adults and children from the borough’s refugee community.', 'Artists from the social enterprise Creative Minds taught participants different methods of artistic expression during the free weekly sessions at Bourne Hall, Epsom.', 'Councillor Clive Woodbridge said it allowed participants to “not only learn new skills, but build self-worth”.', '“Epsom & Ewell Refugee Network does an excellent job in building up a strong circle of support for those who are often trying to move away from upsetting experiences towards a more positive future,” he said.', 'The exhibition, titled My Soul Gallery, is on show at Bourne Hall from 1 to 31 May.', 'Teachers encouraged participants to use their imaginations', 'Jessica Brooks, the refugee network’s manager, said the teachers encouraged participants to use their imaginations and express their feelings through art.', '“This gave participants the opportunity to reflect on emotions in a calm and safe setting, while also exploring many different art mediums with a great range of resources available,” she said.', 'Funding for the project came from the council’s Arts, Culture and Heritage and Community Development departments through the UK Shared Prosperity Fund and Homes for Ukraine scheme.']"
423,"[""The charity's bank accounts have been frozen while a regulator conducts an inquiry"", 'A regulator has frozen the bank accounts of a charity that provides aid for refugees over undisclosed ""substantial payments"".', 'The Charity Commission said it has concerns over trustees at We Care Foundation making payments from the charity to companies for which they are directors.', 'The commission added that ""substantial payments"" were not disclosed in the charity\'s accounts, and were not ""adequately explained"".', 'We Care Foundation, which was founded in Bristol and is now located in Coventry, said it is ""fully committed to resolving matters swiftly"".', 'The commission said it has concerns over ""significant decisions"" about the charity\'s finances and management during a period when there were only two trustees, who were married at the time.', 'The regulator announced the inquiry on Wednesday into the charity, which also provides financial and other aid to victims of war or natural disaster overseas, after it opened in January.', 'The opening of the inquiry is not a finding of wrongdoing, the commission said, adding that it has not made any conclusions.', 'A spokesperson for We Care Foundation said: ""We have provided substantial evidence to support the investigation, demonstrating our commitment.', '""We are fully cooperating with the commission and are dedicated to resolving this matter as quickly as possible. ', '""We Care remains committed to transparency and accountability in all its operations and looks forward to a swift resolution of the inquiry with the commission\'s support.""', 'The inquiry will look into whether the trustees are complying with the law, whether they provided true and accurate information to the regulator at all time and it will examine if any failings or weaknesses were a result of misconduct or mismanagement by the trustees.', 'The commission began engaging with the charity in June 2022, and its bank accounts were frozen in March 2024.', 'We Care Foundation operates with councils across the country including Bristol and Bath and North East Somerset.']"
424,"['More than 5,000 refugee households were classed as homeless between October and December 2023 in England, four times as many as in the same period in 2022.', 'The refugees became homeless after gaining asylum, so they were no longer entitled to Home Office accommodation.  ', 'The Refugee Council charity said they were being ""set up to fail"" and needed more time to find places to live.', 'The Home Office said it was ""working to make sure"" refugees had the support needed.', 'During the whole of 2023, local councils in England accepted 9,580 households as needing help after becoming homeless because they had had to leave asylum accommodation - up from 3,340 in 2022, with most of the rise coming in the second half of the year - according to the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities (DLUHC).', 'The number of refugee households classed as at risk of homelessness also increased.', 'The term household is used to refer to single people, couples or families.', 'Asylum seekers can be housed in Home Office accommodation while their claim is assessed. ', 'If they are successful, they become recognised as refugees - entitled to work and receive state benefits. ', 'But they also lose their right to stay in Home Office accommodation for asylum seekers and are given 28 days to find a new place to live. ', 'From that point on, councils look after housing, if the refugees are unable to. ', 'Councils have rules for assessing whether someone is homeless or at risk of homelessness and whether they are entitled to help with keeping or finding new accommodation or even to be given emergency housing. ', 'Homelessness includes:', 'rough sleeping', 'sofa surfing', 'living in unsuitable or insecure accommodation', 'Refugee Council chief executive Enver Solomon said asking people to find a job and housing within 28 days was ""unrealistic"" and ""means destitution and homelessness is too often inevitable"".', 'Calling for the ""moving-on period"" to be at least doubled, he added: ""This dramatic rise in refugee homelessness is the tragic-yet-predictable consequence of a dysfunctional system that sets newly granted refugees up to fail.""', 'Ali Ibrahim slept outside the West Berkshire Council offices', 'Last August, the government began counting the 28 days from when asylum seekers received their decision letter granting them refugee status, rather than their residence permit entitling them to find accommodation and employment, open a bank account or claim benefits, leaving some  with as little as a week to find somewhere to live before being evicted from Home Office accommodation.', 'One of them, Ali Ibrahim, who had fled the civil war in Darfur, Sudan, camped outside the West Berkshire Council offices in Newbury.', 'The change to the notice period was later reversed - but the latest figures include the time it was in force. ', ""As the government strove to meet Prime Minister Rishi Sunak's end-of-2023 deadline for processing all asylum claims made before July 2022, the Home Office also ramped up the number of decisions made on applications, making more in the last six months of 2023 than in the two years before that. "", 'But the record levels of grants left more refugee families facing homelessness.', 'The Local Government Association, which represents councils, said local authorities were facing a shortage of available and affordable housing for people leaving Home Office asylum accommodation.', '""Councils continue to see growing demand for housing advice and support as they process a backlog of claims from those seeking asylum,"" an official said.', '""Shortages of available and affordable housing mean that those leaving asylum accommodation will struggle to find homes to move on to. ', '""People receiving certainty on their claim is a positive step and we want to work with government on developing a better system for supporting asylum seekers to find permanent homes.""', 'A government spokesperson said: ""Once a newly recognised refugee is issued a biometric residence permit, they get 28 days to move on from asylum accommodation.', '""Support is also available through Migrant Help and their partners, which includes advice on how to access Universal Credit, the labour market and where to get assistance with housing.', '""We are working to make sure individuals have the support they need following an asylum decision, and to help local authorities better plan as we reduce the number of asylum seekers awaiting a decision.""', 'Additional reporting by Robert Cuffe', 'What do you want BBC Verify to investigate?']"
425,"[""The organisation's current lease ends on 1 July "", 'A refugee charity that has supported more than 5,000 people says it urgently needs a new home.', 'Due to demand Aid Box Community (ABC) has outgrown its premises on Cheltenham Road in Bristol, where it provides multiple services.', 'The team had secured a new premises, but this fell through unexpectedly - meaning they currently have nowhere to go once their lease ends on 1 July. ', 'Founded in 2015 in response to the global refugee crisis, external, the charity is now looking for a minimum three-year lease to continue its work. ', 'ABC founder and director Imogen McIntosh said: “The need for our service is greater than ever. We are responding to more and more people every day and there is no sign of this slowing down.', '“There have been times when people have had to queue outside and, as our service has evolved, we now need more physical space so people can connect and help our team work in a more suitable environment.”', 'The charity, which said it was ""well-positioned"" for a move to a bigger site having secured multi-year funding from lotteries and other trusts, has a budget of £45,000 a year and is looking for at least 3,000 square foot of space.', 'The charity says its work has grown as demand has increased', ""The team are hoping to find a premises outside Bristol's Clean Air Zone, while still being as central as possible, preferably north of the centre. "", 'Imogen said: “We are a truly Bristol charity, made from the love, time and financial contributions of the people who live here. ', '""We really urge members of the community, businesses, and landlords to come forward with leads for consideration so we can move on to the next stage of our journey.”']"
426,"['Daniela, 17, from El Salvador, said she was proud to be trying new things', 'A fundraising campaign has been launched to extend surfing lessons for young female refugees.', 'Yonder Surf Academy in North Tyneside has been running surfing sessions for children and teenage refugees in Tynemouth, where they are ""free to play and be kids"".', 'Daniela, 17, from El Salvador, said the classes were ""amazing"" and that she wanted to ""try new things"" when she came to the country.', 'The academy wants to raise £17,000 to buy equipment and help more people access classes.', 'Daniela said she was nervous at first because she could not swim, but now she loved it.', '""It made me feel like a fish,"" she said.  ""When I came to this country I wanted to try new things - and look at these new things I\'ve tried.""', 'Yonder Surf Academy founder Sally Mcgee said surfing had therapeutic benefits', 'Sally McGee, Yonder Surf Academy’s founder, started the fundraiser and said weekly sessions would help the women and girls build friendships.', '""You can\'t really think about anything that\'s happening at home, or work-life, or anything that\'s happening in their country at home, because they\'re just fully immersed in the nature, the wind, and the waves,"" she said.', 'The fundraiser will help up to eight refugee girls at a time access the surf, skate and sea swimming sessions over the course of a year', 'The free sessions have been organised by the charity Action Foundation.', 'Project manager of Action Foundation’s Young Lives project, Bridget Stratford MBE, said the sessions were ""brilliant"".', 'Ms Stratford said: ""Having an opportunity to come down and do something that\'s completely different, where they get to have fun, just be children, and get all the issues out that they\'re dealing with on a day to day basis, is great.', '""As soon as you get into the sea, you tend to forget everything else.""']"
427,"['Tens of thousands of Burmese have fled across the border to Thailand since 2021', 'The bamboo and leaf-thatch shelter in the middle of a sugarcane field hardly looks like a safehouse. ', 'But that is where 23-year-old Sanjay - his choice of a pseudonym - and eight others have been hiding out since fleeing conscription across the border in war-torn Myanmar. ', ""They are now fugitives in Mae Sot, on Thailand's western edge. They share their rudimentary home with a gaggle of ducks and chickens, and several goats."", '""Back home I used to feel afraid every day that they would come to take me into the army,"" Sanjay says. ""Even though we have very little food here - just rice and vegetables - no-one will come to harm me. I feel free here in Thailand.""', 'A narrow, muddy river, no more than a stream in the dry season, is all that separates Myanmar from Thailand. ', ""Across it, tens of thousands have fled since the 2021 military coup, seeking safety in the Thai border town of Mae Sot. The most recent arrivals are young men avoiding the national conscription which has been imposed by Myanmar's military rulers since February - it applies to all men between the ages of 18 and 35. With most of the younger generation strongly opposed to military rule, the law has triggered an exodus of young men."", 'Over the years Mae Sot has become an uneasy refuge for Burmese on the run. It has the feel of Cold War Berlin about it, or of Casablanca in the famous eponymous movie. It is a town full of exiles, planning revolution, waiting for asylum offers, always fearful of spies and informers, and living in a state of almost constant anxiety.', '""I used to be a bad boy,"" Sanjay says. ""I did whatever I liked. I never listened to my mother. I was not interested in politics.""', 'His life, and opinions, changed after the coup when his father was jailed by the military, for helping the resistance. But he never thought about leaving his home until his call-up papers came. ', '""No way was I going to fight for them against other Burmese people.""', 'Sanjay and eight others have been hiding in this shelter', 'In Myawaddy, on the other side of the river from Mae Sot, the Burmese army has just suffered another humiliating defeat. ', 'Hundreds of its troops had to surrender when their bases were overrun by a coalition of insurgents. Reinforcements sent to try to retake the town have been ambushed and bogged down in forested mountains to the west of Myawaddy. ', 'A string of similar defeats suffered by the military in recent months - in Shan and Kachin States to the north, and in Rakhine State to the west - have left the army desperately short of recruits. Thousands of soldiers have been killed, wounded, captured or have deserted. ', 'Sanjay did not want to be one of them. So, his mother helped him escape, travelling with him on the long and perilous bus ride to the border. ', 'With his Myanmar ID card he was able to get a two-week pass to come into Thailand. ', 'That has expired, but he is fortunate to have an uncle already in Mae Sot, who is helping support him.', 'He is, however, forced to lie low in the fields, risking arrest and possible deportation each time he makes a journey into Mae Sot. But he has no regrets.', 'Many exiled revolutionaries still support Aung San Suu Kyi, the elected leader who was deposed by the coup', 'Mae Sot is now a warren of safehouses, whole streets accommodating largely undocumented refugees. Some are well-established dormitories, funded by foreign aid organisations. Others are improvised; empty shophouses in the main market, partitioned inside with plywood and plastic tarpaulins to make rooms just big enough for a family to lie down.', ""In one of the better safehouses, is a  family of five that had just arrived a week ago, carrying some clothes, a few blankets, and nothing else, except their five year-old son's favourite toy car. "", 'The eldest son is 19, and the family made the decision to leave their home near Yangon when his military call-up papers came.', '""I could not accept my son being forced to fight against other young men,"" his father said.', 'They described a gruelling journey from Yangon lasting 15 days, through the Karen State hills and then across the river at night into Thailand. The bribes and fees they had to pay consumed all their savings. ', 'That morning, the father, a former railway worker, had just been out trying to get a job. Wages in Mae Sot are often pitifully low, yet he was unable to find anything. ', 'Mae Sot has a large Burmese population', 'The town is both a sanctuary and a prison for those who have fled from Myanmar. ', 'Thailand is not a signatory to the United Nations Convention and Protocol on Refugees, and does not give official protection to those fleeing the war in Myanmar. Most of the fugitives have few or no documents. ', 'The Thai authorities largely tolerate the influx - people have been coming over the border for decades, and Mae Sot is now an almost entirely Burmese town. But without papers they are not allowed to travel outside it. Money is a constant problem; the police charge 300 baht (£7, $9) every month for a card which is supposed to protect them from being detained at checkpoints, but many Burmese are still picked up and forced to pay much larger sums for their release.', '""There are a lot of mental health challenges,"" says Nay Chi Win, the co-ordinator of Joy House, an innovative community centre set up last year to help refugees deal with the stress and depression they often feel.', '""We hear about a lot of suicide cases, or people talking about suicide. They feel useless. Back in Myanmar they might be an engineer or a doctor, but here they are stateless. They cannot continue their education. They cannot support their families. Sometimes they stop caring about their lives, using drugs or alcohol.""', ""Sanjay has decided to follow the example of many other young men, and go back over the border to fight. At least, he said, he will feel useful. But the brutalities of combat are not for everyone. Getting accepted in one of the volunteer People's Defence Force units requires four months of very tough training by the experienced fighters of the Karen National Union. Many do not make the grade."", 'Thai military presence is a common sight in Mae Sot', 'Other young men with technological experience are being used in the drone squads, helping to construct, adapt and pilot the drones which are playing an increasingly important role in the war, dropping small explosives with pinpoint accuracy to undermine the morale of the soldiers.', '""I miss my leg,"" said the 27-year-old former PDF fighter, speaking in a Mae Sot back street. ', 'He is a former IT technician who joined the resistance after the coup, but lost his right leg when he stepped on a landmine. ', '""It was the right thing to do."" ', 'His advice to those draft dodgers who want to contribute to the struggle is to think about their skills: ""Joining a strike team and fighting is not the most important thing. We need technical people for our drone squads, and we need people to go overseas and do fund-raising.""', 'Meanwhile, Thailand - which for years has pretended it can manage any overspill from the conflict over the border as a localised issue between the militaries of the two countries - has admitted that the military regime in Myanmar may be crumbling, and that it must brace itself to accommodate tens of thousands more coming over the border.', 'The fighting in Myawaddy has brought a more visible Thai military presence to Mae Sot. ', 'They can be seen doing sentry duty along the banks of the river, looking across to the casinos and scam centres which have blighted this part of Myanmar in recent years, to the now insurgent-controlled border posts, and to a handful of defeated Burmese soldiers who hunkered down for a few days on the opposite bank. ', ""But despite the reminders of Myanmar's fighting on their doorstep, those who have just arrived in Mae Sot are still enjoying a sense of relief."", 'The father-of-three worries about education for his boys. Undocumented Burmese cannot attend Thai schools, and most of the Burmese language schools in Mae Sot charge fees. He and his wife hope their eldest boy can study online to fulfil his ambition to be a doctor. ', 'But, he says, they are glad they left Myanmar. ', '""In the past week I have slept better than at any time since the coup.""', ""Myanmar's army massacred Rohingyas. Now it wants their help"", ""The young refusing to become Myanmar's 'human shields'"", ""Myanmar's army is losing - and facing fire from a militant monk"", 'A turning point in Myanmar as army suffers big losses']"
428,"['Little Amal will travel to Northern Ireland next month', 'A large art installation which depicts a 10-year-old Syrian refugee is coming to Northern Ireland next month.', 'Little Amal, which has travelled to 160 towns and cities in 16 countries, was built to represent children fleeing war, violence and persecution.', 'Free tickets are now available for some public events, with the project arriving in Belfast on 16 May.', ""Her arrival to Northern Ireland is a signature event in Belfast City Council's Belfast 2024 programme."", 'The puppet, standing at a height of 12ft (3.7m), is presented by The Walk Productions alongside Handspring Puppet Company and local partner ArtsEkta.', ""War Horse creators' refugee set for epic walk"", 'It was made by the same artists who worked on the puppet for the theatre production of War Horse.', ""It takes three puppeteers to animate Little Amal - one person to operate each of her arms, plus a stilt walker whose legs become Amal's and who also animates her face."", 'There will be a number of opportunities to see Little Amal in Belfast next month.', 'This video can not be played', 'In 2021, Amal completed a journey of 5,000 miles (8,000 km) from the Turkish-Syrian border to the UK', 'Thursday 16 May: Her arrival, via the River Lagan, will be followed by a free outdoor performance at Custom House Square (19:00-20:00 BST, doors 18:30)', ""Friday 17 May: After meeting with community, school and faith groups and exploring the city, including some of the city's peace walls, Little Amal will travel to St Anne's Cathedral for an evening of live music and art (performance 20:00-22:00, doors 19:45)"", ""Tickets for the Custom House Square, St Anne's Cathedral, CS Lewis Square and Cave Hll shows are available, external, limited to four per person. "", ""All other public events in Belfast during Little Amal's visit do not require a ticket to attend."", '""Her urgent message to the world is: ""don\'t forget about us\',"" says her creators', ""Saturday 18 May: Little Amal will be crowned the May Queen and will lead a parade from Writer's Square to City Hall, (starting at 12:30), she will then travel to CS Lewis Square in east Belfast for an outdoor show, suitable for all ages (19:00-20.30, doors 18.30)"", ""Sunday 19 May: Following a tree planting event in Colin Glen Forest Park (11:00-12:00, doors 10:30), Amal's final stop will be the slopes of Cave Hill at the Four Treasures of Tuatha (19:00-21:00) for a music and dance ceremony "", 'After her stop in Belfast, Little Amal will journey on to Newry, Mourne and Down, crossing the border before concluding her travels in Dublin. ', 'Details of these events are yet to be announced.', 'The puppet takes three people to operate', 'Speaking ahead of the visit, David Lan from The Walks Productions said he is ""thrilled Amal will be visiting Belfast, Newry, Dublin and places in between"".', '""Wherever she goes, crossing borders, making new friends, bringing strangers together, she adds a little to the wellbeing of the world, even in these especially dark times,"" he added.', 'Lord Mayor of Belfast Ryan Murphy encouraged members of the public to ""be part of what promises to be a very memorable experience"".', '""This is a really impressive line-up of events, which combines grassroots, community-led activities with the very best of our local arts scene, to create a packed weekend of events, with something for everyone to enjoy,"" he said.', 'Little Amal has previously visited Vatican City', 'ArtsEkta chief executive Nisha Tandon said the organisation has been working with residents and artists to co-create a ""spectacular programme of events"".', '""We are inviting everyone to join us in the celebrations, which will see every corner of the city come alive with music, dance, theatre and art to help Little Amal learn about Belfast\'s people, stories and heritage,"" she said.', 'Councillor Valerie Harte added: ""Newry, Mourne and Down District Council is delighted to be involved in this all-island initiative and for our residents to have the opportunity to hear Little Amal\'s message of hope and empathy. ', '""We can\'t wait for Little Amal to learn about our diverse community as she shares her story and will be sharing details of how and where to join in with \'Walk with Amal\' in our district in the coming weeks.""']"
429,"[""The hotel's owners said in February 2023 it had to take on the contract to secure its future"", 'The Home Office is to move all asylum seekers out of a \xa0four-star\xa0hotel ""before the end of June"", according to an MP\xa0.', 'said it was taking a government contract to house the refugees in January 2023, saying it was ""necessary"" to secure its survival.', 'Conservative South West Bedfordshire MP Andrew Selous said: ""The current residents will be moving to other parts of the asylum estate.""', 'The Home Office did not comment about Old Palace Lodge, but did say it was ""making significant progress with moving asylum seekers out of hotels"".', 'About 300 people attended a public meeting when the plans became known', 'Writing on his website, Mr Selous said the Home Office had terminated its contract with the hotel. ', 'Mr Selous said: ""The takeover of hotels by the Home Office has never been the right way to house asylum seekers.', '""Hotels are important community assets for local businesses and for local people to celebrate significant life events, and The Old Palace Lodge was a very important venue for the town.""', ""300 people attended a public meeting once the hotel's arrangement became known."", 'Its owners said it was needed to ensure its survival amid rising energy costs following the Covid pandemic.', 'As a result, weddings and other events due to be held at the hotel had to be cancelled.', 'The contract provided about150 beds of temporary accommodation for asylum seekers.', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: “We are making significant progress with moving asylum seekers out of hotels, which cost UK taxpayers £8.2m a day.', '“We have already exited 100 hotels and we will exit more in the coming months.”']"
430,"['Oksana fled her home in Ukraine with her daughters Lena and Yara two years ago', 'A pensioner has bought the Ukrainian family she hosted a home because it felt like the ""obvious"" thing to do.', 'Janie Penn-Barwell from Eastleigh was one of thousands across the UK to get involved in a scheme housing displaced families after the Russian invasion.', 'Ms Penn-Barwell hosted Oksana and her two daughters, Lena and Yara, for 18 months and has since bought a home for them to live in.', 'Oksana said she felt like she could stop running after receiving the keys.', 'From left to right: Yara, Oksana and Lena have recently celebrated two years of being settled in the UK', 'Oksana said: ""It\'s wonderful, I had a feeling that I was running, running, running and finally I have stopped. I just relax and let them [her daughters] do what they want and have their dreams come true. ', '""I try to work as much as I can, try to take more hours and try to be useful.""', 'Janie Penn-Barwell said buying the house felt like the ""obvious"" thing to do for Oksana', 'Ms Penn-Barwell got a mortgage to purchase the property, which she now rents out to Oksana and acts as landlady, she said she is ""really proud"" of how they have settled in.', 'She said: ""It wasn\'t so much that we were too crowded and fighting or anything like that, absolutely not, but it seemed sensible that they needed a home of their own. ', '""I guess it seemed obvious because there wasn\'t anywhere else to rent and I thought if you can do it, you should do it - so I could, so I did.""', 'Ms Penn-Barwell added: ""I\'m not a wildly wealthy woman, far from it, I have an NHS pension but you know, if you don\'t need things, why not do something useful?""', 'Yara said it was ""wonderful"" to have her own bedroom to decorate how she wanted', 'Oksana and her daughters have been living in their new home for six months now and Lena and Yara are studying for their GCSEs and A Levels. ', 'Yara, 15, said: ""It\'s wonderful, I really like that I have my own bedroom and I can decorate it myself how I want. It feels more free I would say.""', 'Lena, 18, added: ""I do like that me and my sister have separate bedrooms because now I can keep my room neat and tidy and I really like living close to Janie still. Having a home of our own where we can speak Ukrainian together, it\'s very nice.""', 'Lena said it felt ""very nice"" to have a home where she could speak Ukrainian with her mum and sister', 'Yara and Lena said Ms Penn-Barwell has become part of their family and they now fondly refer to her as ""Granny."" ', 'Oksana added: ""She\'s definitely a member of our family. I don\'t see her as much as I\'d like now, I miss her, she really can make my day better. ', '""I feel that my heart belongs to my Ukrainian house, but I\'m happy in any house where my children are happy.""']"
432,"['The homes in the Bedford Borough area will be for people from Ukraine and Afghanistan', 'Ten more properties have been purchased by a council to house Ukrainian and Afghan refugees. ', 'Bedford Borough Council said in total 17 homes were now available for people ""fleeing conflict"". ', 'Seven of them were already owned by the authority.  ', 'It said it was adding to £2.18m from a central government capital programme. ', 'Conservative councillor Phillippa Martin-Moran-Bryant, portfolio holder for community safety and housing, said: ""It shows significant progress in our commitment to supporting refugees who are fleeing conflict and seeking refuge in our community.', '""The houses have been brought into the social home sector in order to support residents from those communities have a quality life in this country.""']"
433,"['Mark Murray said the city needed to help refugees who had fled the country, including from cities such as Russian-occupied Mariupol (pictured)', 'Ukrainian refugees in Peterborough need help finding homes, according to a charity.', 'Helping Empower Lives in Peterborough (Help) said fewer people were coming forward to offer to be hosts.', 'A charity manager told the BBC that housing was the biggest problem facing Ukrainians arriving in the city.', 'Mark Murray outlined the difficulties as the charity prepared for a Ukraine Cultural Celebration, scheduled to take place on Saturday.', 'Help works with Peterborough City Council and has been the main point of contact for Ukrainians arriving in the city since shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.', 'Mr Murray, office manager at the charity, estimated that 200 Ukrainians were in Peterborough - many of them wives and children of men fighting in the war. He said one woman had two sons on the front line.', '""People are still arriving,"" said Mr Murray.', '""At the moment housing is the biggest issue - finding host families.', '""At the start there was a lot of publicity. I think Ukraine has maybe dropped out of the limelight a little bit - not as many host families are coming forward now.""', 'He said if host families did not come forward, alternative accommodation had to be found, and that could be difficult.', 'Mr Murray said the charity aimed to celebrate ""all things Ukrainian"" at its Ukraine Cultural Celebration at St Mark\'s Church on Saturday.', 'The day will include performances, food, crafts and information for refugees.']"
434,"['Dmytro (Dima) Tipakov was described as always smiling', 'The host of a Ukrainian refugee who died in Cornwall is raising money to return his body to be buried in his home country.', 'Jennifer Burnett said Dmytro (Dima) Tipakov, 32, died on 24 February from complications due to a pre-existing condition.', ""Ms Burnett, who lives in Mevagissey, said Mr Tipakov's family want him to be buried in Ukraine."", 'She said he had lived with her since he arrived in the UK in December 2022. ', 'Ms Burnett said people in Mevagissey would remember Mr Tipakov as the ""man who was always smiling"". ', '""He was very kind, always smiling, always happy,"" she said.', 'Ms Burnett said people in Mevagissey would remember Mr Tipakov as the ""man who was always smiling""', 'Ms Burnett said he moved in with her through the Homes for Ukraine Scheme after the invasion.', ""Listen: Community raises funds after refugee's death"", 'She said he was eligible to move due to his pre-existing health condition. ', 'Ms Burnett said he was happy when he started English classes and really settled in once he started working at a local restaurant. ', ""Ms Burnett said the final wish of Mr Tipakov's mother and brother was to say goodbye and bury him in Ukraine. "", '""I want to send him home because, as a mother, I cannot imagine sending my child off from a war-torn country for them to be safe, and to never see them again,"" she said.', '""It is really important to me that I give him back to his mother."" ', 'She described the support and donations from people in Mevagissey as ""amazing"".', 'Luda Smith said she would give advice to Mr Tipakov about life in the UK', ""Luda Smith, English tutor at Cornwall College, said Mr Tipakov enjoyed attending her classes and being part of the county's Ukrainian community."", 'She said she taught English to Ukrainian refugees and would give advice to Mr Tipakov about life in the UK. ', '""There has been a really good community response,"" she said.', '""We are all grieving and very sad about this news and it was a shock to all of us. ', '""Together we are helping to raise money for Dima.""']"
435,"['Councillor John Howard says the houses are vital for families individuals and vulnerable populations', 'A council will buy 15 new homes for refugees by the end of the month.', 'The properties will add to the 25 homes bought by Peterborough City Council last year as part of its refugee resettlement scheme.', ""The scheme has been aimed at people who fled Afghanistan after the Taliban's offensive in 2021 and Ukraine following Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022.\xa0"", 'Councillor John Howard said the homes were ""vital"" and more than just ""bricks and mortar"". ', ""The scheme has been funded by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities' (DLUHC) local authority housing fund."", 'The council will use some of the money from the fund to refurbish the properties, external it has bought.', 'The city council said that support would be available for refugees that have been resettled in Peterborough under the national schemes.', 'This included help with opening a bank account, accessing health and social care services and education, learning English and gaining qualifications in order to work. ', 'Advice would also be offered on how to integrate into the UK and specifically Peterborough, the council added.', 'The council said the households would be responsible for paying rent and bills on the properties.', 'It added that part of the funds from the DLUHC would also go towards buying 25 one-bedroom homes for rough sleepers with multiple and complex needs.', 'At a cabinet meeting on Monday, external, Mr Howard, the council\'s deputy leader and cabinet member for corporate government and finance, said: ""These funds serve as a lifeline and empower us to address critical challenges and elevate the quality of life for our residents. ', '""The dwellings are more than bricks and mortar, but are vital for safe homes for families, individuals and vulnerable populations.""']"
436,"['Iryna Hordiienko came to the UK alone unable to speak English', 'A Ukrainian refugee who fled to the UK has swapped Kharkiv for Margate, where she now makes TikTok videos about British life.', 'Iryna Hordiienko, 25, fled her hometown after Russian forces bombed her city in February 2022.', 'She later applied for the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme and moved to Ramsgate, Kent, in April 2022.', 'Now living in Margate, she told PA Real Life that the UK “feels like home”.', 'Ms Hordiienko arrived to the UK on April 25', 'When Russia invaded Ukraine, Ms Hordiienko was working as a photo editor in the country’s second largest city.', 'She remembers seeing reports on the Telegram app warning people that “Russia was coming”.', 'Ms Hordiienko said: “We never imagined that Russia could attack Kharkiv.', '“All of my friends were saying \'Iryna why are you worried? Nothing will happen.\'""', 'On 23 February 2022, she was shaken awake by the sound of explosions. Her school and university had been reduced to rubble.', 'She later fled to the Polish border with six others. ', 'Iryna Hordiienko now documents her life in the UK, discussing the British culture', 'After arriving to the UK, she began working three jobs and learning English.', 'In her spare time she started a TikTok channel @irisssskai discussing her experience in the UK and how it compares to her previous life in Ukraine.', 'The videos highlight the differences between the two countries.', 'Her channel has amassed 24,000 followers and 430,000 likes – which she hopes will help her pursue a career in digital marketing and modelling.', 'Ms Hordiienko said she was happy in the UK and though she likes Ukraine, her life was ""really, really hard there.""']"
437,"['Taisiia, pictured with daughter Solomiia, considered moving back to Ukraine because of the condition of the Swansea house she was offered', 'A Ukrainian refugee returned to live in Kyiv rather than stay in the accommodation she was offered in Swansea due to its condition.', 'Taisiia, 35, returned to her war-torn home country for 21 days with her seven-month-old daughter as ""it felt like a better option"".', 'But she has since returned to Wales, and has thanked volunteers in the community who came to her rescue to help renovate the home, saying they are the reason she can now stay safe in Wales.', 'Swansea council said the kitchen and bathroom had previously been upgraded, walls had been freshly plastered and painting and decorating materials had been provided.', ""Taisiia's house before she moved in "", 'Taisiia - who wanted to be identified by her first name only - and daughter Solomiia arrived in Swansea via Poland in June 2022. Her husband Dmutro remained in Kyiv, splitting the family apart.', 'Initially, Taisiia and Solomiia lived in Mumbles with a family as part of the Homes for Ukraine scheme.', 'She said the family were incredibly helpful and still keep in touch, but in January 2023 she started to look for independent housing.', '""Being a single mum, no-one from the agencies gave me a chance to rent. I only saw three properties in seven months,"" Taisiia told Wales Live.', 'She said she was advised to make herself ""homeless"" to be considered for social housing, and stayed in hotels and with friends she had made in Swansea.', 'Taisiia was then offered a potential house, but she said its condition was not fit to be lived in.', 'She said: ""There were a lot of holes in the walls and floors, it smelt of dog wee and the radiator was leaking. To be honest the basement in Kyiv was in better condition.""', 'Taisiia made the difficult decision to try and return back to Ukraine to live.', '""We went back to Kyiv for 21 days, but we didn\'t sleep because of the attacks. We felt like zombies as a result.""', 'Walls at the house had damage', 'After realising her quality of life in Kyiv would be poor, she paid £2,000 in order to renovate the Swansea house. ', 'Volunteers and neighbours helped to put down new flooring, plaster walls and paint. She said she was incredibly grateful.', '""If there wasn\'t this help from people I think we would be living in Kyiv, despite it being unsafe. We are so grateful for all the help we have been given,"" she said.', '""July for me was the most horrible month in my life, it was so hard to organise the house with a little baby alone, it was very very hard.""', 'Swansea council said since the start of the conflict in Ukraine, the city had housed around 120 Ukrainian households in private, social and council accommodation.', 'But despite securing a home in Swansea, Taisiia says her future still remains unclear.', 'The UK government has issued visas lasting three years to Ukrainians seeking sanctuary in the UK. ', 'The first visas granted were due to expire in March 2025 before an 18-month extension was announced in February.', 'Immigration and asylum law lecturer Jennifer Morgan from Cardiff University said Ukrainians in Wales still faced a “worrying time” as uncertainty remains.', 'She says for those who are struggling to access housing and education, the extension simply “pushes issues further down the road”.', 'Taisiia and her family in Kyiv one week before the war began', 'Taisiia said she speaks regularly to her husband, and uses video calls so he can see his daughter grow up. They both returned to Kyiv in December to see him over Christmas.', 'Despite her home and husband being in Ukraine, Taisiia is making a life for herself in Wales. She is attending a college course so she can transfer her psychology qualifications to the UK. ', 'Solomiia has received a grant so she can go to nursery.', 'Taisiia added: ""For now we don\'t know what to do, we have built our lives here and are working to find a good job, but of course we are very worried about our future.""', 'The Welsh government said it would have liked visa extensions to have been longer than 18 months. ', 'It said it had provided £8.2m to help “the move on of people from Ukraine to longer-term accommodation and integrate into local communities”.', 'The UK government said more than 140,000 Ukrainians had been welcomed to the UK. ', 'A spokesperson said it provided ""£5,900 per person to councils to enable them to provide support, including in the minority of cases where someone is left without accommodation”.']"
438,"['London Councils said 311 refugees had to sleep rough in January after being required to leave National Asylum Support Service accommodation', 'Hundreds of refugees faced having to sleep rough in London during a cold snap after being evicted from Home Office accommodation, figures show.', 'London Councils said 311 refugees had to sleep rough in January after being required to leave National Asylum Support Service (NASS) accommodation as their claims had been closed.', 'The number was up from 93 refugees in the same position in September.', 'The Home Office said it was working with authorities to improve the system.', 'London Councils said a total of 1,087 refugees asked homelessness services in the capital for help in January following Home Office evictions, an increase of 78% since September.', ""The group, which represents 33 local authorities in the capital, said 242 evicted refugees were among 1,284 rough sleepers given emergency placements when London's mayor Sadiq Khan activated an extreme weather protocol on 8 January. "", 'Emergency accommodation is opened up when temperatures dip below freezing.', 'Refugees are required to leave NASS accommodation within 28 days of their asylum claims having been processed.', 'The January survey found that more than 90% of refugees living on the streets had received a positive decision on their asylum claim, which could include being granted protection, resettlement or an alternative form of leave in the UK.', 'Hundreds of asylum seekers told to leave London hotel', 'Grace Williams, Labour leader of Waltham Forest Council and London Councils\' lead for asylum and refugees, described the spike in refugees rough sleeping as ""deeply alarming"".', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: ""Once a newly recognised refugee is issued a biometric residence permit, they get 28 days to move on from asylum accommodation.', '""Support is also available through Migrant Help and their partners, which includes advice on how to access universal credit, the labour market and where to get assistance with housing.', '""We are working with local authorities to manage the impact as we reduce the number of asylum-seekers awaiting a decision.""']"
439,"['Adriana beat 400 other spaniels to win Best of Breed at this years Crufts dog show', 'The owner of a dog rehomed from Ukraine and that has won a top prize at Crufts has said she ""lives life to the full"".', ""Cocker spaniel Adriana was rescued two years ago and won the Best of Breed award at this year's dog show."", ""Adriana's owner Michael Masters, 65, from Somerset, helped her beat more than 400 other spaniels to win the title in Birmingham."", 'Mr Masters said he was worried she would get ""spooked"" by the clapping and it was a ""big achievement"".', 'Adriana was rescued from her home in Ukraine when she was seven-months-old, after the country was invaded by Russia. ', 'The Crufts dog competition sees thousands of dogs from around the world competing at the NEC in Birmingham', 'She spent time being cared for in Poland and Germany after her owner sent her away for her own safety.', 'Mr Masters, who works as a minibus driver, brought her over to the UK to give her a new life.', '""Adriana was being pushed from pillar to post before I paid for her to come over, she arrived at eight-months-old.', '""Despite her turbulent youth, Adriana is a very happy little dog who lives life to the full,"" Mr Masters added.']"
440,"['Sweden and Canada have said they will resume aid payments to UNRWA, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees.', 'They were among 16 countries that paused funds after Israel accused at least 12 UNRWA staff of involvement in the 7 October attack by Hamas.', ""The UN is investigating, and France's foreign minister is leading a review. "", 'Sweden said on Saturday it would send 200 million kronor (£15m; $19m) initially, after UNRWA agreed to more checks on its spending and staff.', '""The government has allocated 400 million kronor to UNRWA for the year 2024. Today\'s decision concerns a first payment of 200 million kronor,"" it said in a statement.', ""It comes after Canada said on Friday that it would re-start funding for UNRWA while investigations into the agency's staff continue."", ""On 7 October, Hamas gunmen stormed across Gaza's border into Israel, killing about 1,200 people and taking more than 250 hostage."", 'In response, Israel launched a campaign of air strikes and a ground invasion of the territory.', ""More than 30,900 people have since been killed in Gaza, the territory's Hamas-run health ministry says, and the amount of aid reaching civilians has plummeted."", ""The UN has warned that a quarter of the Strip's population is on the brink of famine and children are starving to death. "", 'UNRWA is the biggest UN agency operating in Gaza. It provides healthcare, education and other humanitarian aid, and employs about 13,000 people there.', 'Its chief Philippe Lazzarini said he was ""cautiously optimistic"" donors would start funding it again within weeks. ', 'He said the agency was ""at risk of death"" after major donor countries suspended funding following allegations in late January that a number of staff members were involved in the 7 October attack. Within days, Mr Lazzarini said an investigation was being carried out, and ""to protect the agency\'s ability to deliver humanitarian assistance"" these staff members had been sacked. ', '""What is at stake is the fate of the Palestinians today in Gaza in the short term who are going through an absolutely unprecedented humanitarian crisis,"" Mr Lazzarini said.', 'The European Commission said earlier this month that it would release €50m in UNRWA funding.', ""Sweden is the fourth largest contributor to the agency's budget, and Canada the 11th largest, 2022 data shows. "", ""Canada's decision was announced in a statement on Friday by the country's Minister of International Development, Ahmed Hussen."", 'He said it was made so that ""more can be done to respond to the urgent needs of Palestinian civilians"", and ""in recognition of the robust investigative process under way"".', 'The Canadian Armed Forces will also donate about 300 cargo parachutes to Jordan, so they can be used to airdrop supplies into Gaza.', 'Why food airdrops into Gaza are controversial', 'Key UN Gaza aid agency runs into diplomatic storm', 'On Friday the EU, UK, US and others said they planned to open a sea route to Gaza to deliver aid that could begin operating this weekend.', 'Meanwhile an internal draft document compiled by UNRWA and seen by the BBC has detailed widespread abuse of Palestinians, including UNRWA employees who were released into Gaza from Israeli detention. ', 'In the document, former detainees describe an extensive range of ill-treatment.', 'It says: ""Agency staff members have been subject to threats and coercion by the Israeli authorities while in detention, and pressured to make false statements against the Agency, including that the Agency has affiliations with Hamas and that UNRWA staff members took part in the 7 October 2023 atrocities.""', 'In a statement provided to the BBC, the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) rejected specific allegations and said: ""The mistreatment of detainees during their time in detention or whilst under interrogation violates IDF values and contravenes IDF and is therefore absolutely prohibited.""']"
441,"['Naveed ran a specialist dental clinic in Afghanistan', 'At a glance', 'Dentist who fled the Taliban says more must be done to allow refugee dentists help the NHS', ""Government launches consultation into proposals for a more accessible route into work for overseas dentists, as the UK's dental crisis grows "", 'Charity says it is ""ludicrous"" having dentists unable to work while people are ""pulling out their own teeth""', 'Refugee dentists are urging authorities to let them help the NHS, amid a growing crisis over access to services.', 'Across the UK people have been hit by lengthy waiting lists, with some resorting to pulling out their own teeth as they struggle to find a dentist. ', 'At the same time, skilled dentists are ""sitting in their homes"" desperate to help, but hindered by red tape.', 'The chair of a refugee charity described the situation as ""ludicrous"", as the government launched a plan to simplify the route into work for overseas dentists.', 'Fran Wood, chair of Darlington Assistance for Refugees (DAR), said there are at least 10 skilled dentists in the Tees Valley area.', 'The group is campaigning to establish a more accessible route into work for trained dentists who are currently seeking asylum.', ""Currently, they face significant costs and lengthy waits to sit the General Dental Council's (GDC) overseas registration exams (ORE)."", 'Fran Wood, chair of Darlington Assistance for Refugees, says a ""clear pathway"" is needed to get refugee dentists back into work', 'She said the cost of the ORE was out of reach for most asylum seekers because they are not allowed to work.', '""And even if they did get that qualification, dentistry is bizarrely not on the government\'s occupation shortages list, so they would be unable to work as dentists anyway,"" she added.', '""I can\'t even imagine how frustrating they must find it.', '""They are highly skilled yet sitting in their homes becoming deskilled while people in our neighbourhoods are pulling out their own teeth."" ', 'In his native Afghanistan, dentist Naveed ran a specialist clinic and gave free treatment to women who had fled the Taliban.', 'When the Taliban came to power in 2021, Naveed was told to reveal the whereabouts of those he had helped. ', 'He refused, and recognising the danger he was in, he fled the country with his family.', 'Dentist Naveed sharing his portfolio, and his memories, with Fran Wood', 'Now living in Darlington, he said he was desperate to return to work.', '""There is a shortage of NHS dentists and if asylum seekers could work, we could help the NHS,"" he said.', '""This would be very good for the NHS and for British people.""', 'The British Dental Association (BDA) is among those backing calls to make the transition to practice in the UK easier for overseas dentists.', 'The union has called on the government to provide financial support, and said it wanted to see a ""fair and workable system"" in place that did not compromise patient safety.', 'A spokeswoman said the BDA was sympathetic to the plight of refugee dentists and had ""long highlighted"" how difficult it was to navigate the system.', 'In February, the government launched a consultation into plans to boost the dental workforce by allowing the GDC to provisionally register overseas dentists, speeding up the lengthy process.', 'Those on the provisional register would be able to work in the UK, under the supervision of a fully-registered dentist.', 'Primary care minister Andrea Leadsom said the proposals would abolish red tape, ""while ensuring the highest standards of care and patient safety.""  ', 'The GDC would be given autonomy in setting the terms of provisional registrations.', 'Stefan Czerniawski, executive director of strategy, described provisional registration as an ""exciting opportunity"", but added it would require commitment and collaboration across dentistry.', 'He said: ""We need to move at pace, but we need to take the time to get this right.""']"
442,"['The UN says almost 6.5m people have fled Ukraine since the war began', ""Leeds City Council has appealed for more Ukrainian refugee hosts on the second anniversary of Russia's invasion."", 'A council spokesperson said the city had welcomed more than 900 Ukrainians fleeing the conflict under the Homes for Ukraine scheme since the war began.', 'But more help was needed, said councillor Mary Harland.', 'Council leader James Lewis said Leeds had a ""long history of offering humanitarian support"".', 'Ms Harland, the council\'s executive member for communities, said the response to the Homes for Ukraine scheme in Leeds had been ""truly magnificent"".', '""But, as the war continues into a third year and Ukrainian guests continue to arrive in the city, we need more help to house both new arrivals and those who are already here,"" she added.', '""Hosting can be a rewarding experience for both host and guest.""', 'Hosts could claim a tax-free payment of up to £500 per month, said Ms Harland.', ""Anyone interested in becoming a host could find out more information on the council's dedicated webpage for the scheme, external."", 'Mr Lewis said: ""As a city, we are proud to have a long history of offering humanitarian support and I continue to be humbled and proud of the many people across the city who have opened their hearts, homes, and communities to those in need of our assistance, whether they be from Ukraine, Syria, Afghanistan or anywhere else.""', 'Almost 6.5m refugees have fled Ukraine since the start of the conflict, according to the UN Refugee Agency.', 'The Lord Mayor of Leeds, councillor Al Garthwaite, signed a friendship oath with Ukraine\'s second city Kharkiv in December as part of a ""lasting international bond"" between the two cities. ', 'Civic buildings in Leeds would be lit in blue and yellow on Saturday to mark the two-year anniversary.', ""A commemoration event was also due to take place at St Anne's Cathedral at 2pm.""]"
443,"[""A vigil was held at St Andrew's Church in Keighley"", ""Ukrainians who moved to Keighley to escape the war have marked the second anniversary of Russia's invasion."", ""Since arriving in the town, about 100 women and children refugees have been supported by Keighley's Ukrainian Cultural and Community Centre."", 'On Friday, many joined a vigil to mark two years since the start of the war.', 'Iryna Cyhanko, who helped organise support for the refugees in Keighley, said: ""I don\'t like to call them displaced persons. They are family.""', ""Joining the vigil, organised by the Association of Ukrainians Keighley branch and held at St Andrew's Church, was Viktoriia Sydoruk, from Odessa."", 'She was one of those who fled Ukraine following the Russian invasion on 24 February 2022 and she came alone to West Yorkshire.', 'Viktoriia Sydoruk said her parents urged her to flee Ukraine for a chance of happiness', 'Ms Sydoruk said her parents had encouraged her to leave for the UK to have a chance at happiness. ', '""My mama looked at me and she couldn\'t say any words. She just looked and I understood what she meant,"" she said.', '""They are older people, and they had a life before. They had a family, children, and a life. ', '""But I am young and I didn\'t have the same life that they had before.""', ""Two years on, Ms Sydoruk's memories of the start of the invasion remain stark."", 'She said when the air raid sirens sounded over Odessa, she and her family retreated to her basement, then fled to a refugee centre with just her cat and some bottles of water.', 'She left the country shortly afterwards, but her brother, Dennis, stayed to fight - only to be badly injured when he was hit by a Russian drone. ', '""When people have injuries like my brother has had, they usually don\'t survive,"" Ms Sydoruk said.', '""I am really proud. He is like a hero for us.""', 'Ms Cyhanko set up weekly meetings for Ukrainians as refugees started arriving in Keighley', 'As refugees began arriving in Keighley following the invasion, Ms Cyhanko, a second generation Ukrainian in West Yorkshire, became a lynchpin.', 'She began weekly gatherings at the Ukrainian Cultural and Community Centre to help and support those who had left their war-torn homeland behind.', 'Ms Cyhanko said: ""What we\'ve done for them was lacking when our parents came over. So, we wanted this transitional help for these people.""', 'She added that she understood all too clearly what it must be like for those who had left Ukraine since the Russian invasion and come to Keighley.', '""You settle here in body, but your head is still with family or loved ones in Ukraine,"" she said.']"
444,"['Maryna Dovbysh has not been back to Ukraine since the war broke out', 'Returning to Ukraine feels like an impossible ""dream"" for some Ukrainians who fled to the UK after war broke out.', 'Saturday 24 February marks two years since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of the country.', ""Dorset has welcomed more than 1,000 people through the government's Homes for Ukraine scheme."", 'Refugees and people from organisations who have been supporting them recently gathered for an event in Poundbury.', 'They reflected on the achievements of the past two years as well as looking to the challenges ahead. ', 'Maryna Dovbysh, who was a journalist in Ukraine, has not been back to her country since the war began.', ""Psychologist helps Ukrainian refugees feel 'hopeful'"", 'Ukranians in rural Dorset seek to relocate', 'The 36-year-old lives with her two young children in Weymouth and works as a refugee project officer for charity Help and Kindness. ', 'She said: ""Of course people dream about returning home because they have families there, their flats, a feeling of cultural unity, but it is very hard because the war is not over. ', '""We cannot make any decisions about returning home because it is still dangerous and we do not know when it will stop.""', 'She said it was ""really an achievement"" that Ukrainians felt safe in the UK.', '""Our children feel safe and I know, from my experience, that if they contact local community organisations, churches and the council, people will receive support,"" she explained.', 'Dorset Council said 171 Ukrainians have returned home, but most have stayed in the county, either living with hosts or in private rented accommodation. ', 'Chef Olya Patiuta, 38, has been in Dorset since April 2022. The mother-of-two cooked traditional Ukrainian food borscht and pampushky bread for the event in Poundbury.', 'Olya Patiuta has established a catering business in Dorset', 'She has established a catering business in Dorset and said, for now, she sees her future in England. ', '""I thought we would come just for the summer and the war would be finished,"" she said.', '""But two years later it is not safe to return. My kids are growing here and have an opportunity to have a normal childhood without checking the sky for bombs."" ', 'She explained that her brothers and uncle were fighting in the military, adding: ""My heart is tearing apart. I am living in two worlds - physically I am here but mentally I am there.""', 'Ukrainians who came to the UK were given three-year visas but the government has extended the length of time people can stay by 18 months. ', 'Thomas Hensher, a refugee case worker from Citizens Advice Central Dorset, welcomed the extension.', '""It is really welcome news and will relieve a lot of anxiety for my clients,"" he said.', 'Photographer Nataliia, 37, came to Dorset from Kharkiv three months after the war began with her son, who is now 12. ', 'Initially her husband was not allowed to leave Ukraine but he has since been able to join them in Dorchester because he has various health conditions. ', 'She said: ""We are safe but we have survivor\'s guilt. I feel guilty because others are not safe back in Ukraine. ', '""For me, home is still home and I want to go back, but for my child it is much safer to be here."" ', 'Nataliia and her son and husband are now all in Dorset']"
445,"['Kseniia Novikova left her home a few days after the Russian invasion', '""It\'s something you have to do to save your life.""', 'That is what Kseniia Novikova had to say about leaving Ukraine.', ""She is one of more than 200,000 people who used the government's Homes for Ukraine scheme to flee the war and come to the UK. Of those, more than 2,200 were sponsored by people in Berkshire."", 'On the two-year anniversary of the start of the conflict, this is what three refugees living in the county had to say.', 'Ms Novikova used to work for a radio station in Kyiv, but when the war started she fled to Poland. She now lives in Lower Earley, Reading, with her mother.', 'The 36-year-old said she never dreamt of coming to the UK, but ""sometimes you make some intuitive decisions"".', '""It was based on some fear that everything will move to the western part of Europe,"" she said.', 'She believed the UK was safe because it was so far away from Ukraine.', 'Ms Novikova came to the UK with her mother, Victoria', 'Ms Novikova does not know when, or if, she will be able to move back to Ukraine.', '""When you live [for] two years far away from your homeland, you try to settle in the place where you stay, and in this case it could be hard to move just because, again, it\'s big changes,"" she said.', '""Even if you return, it will not be the same country anymore... it will be a hard choice for a lot of people.""', 'For Nataliya and her teenage son, Tymur, the community in Reading was key to helping them settle in.', '""It’s been really hard because of the language,"" said Tymur.', '""It’s been a nice community... they’re really helping me these days. I don’t know what I will do without them.""', 'Tymur joined Reading Canoe Club after fleeing Ukraine', 'The pair fled Ukraine eight days into the war.', 'Tymur now kayaks with the Reading Canoe Club, and has dreams of competing in the Canoe Sprint Olympic Hopes Regatta in Hungary in September.', '""In the UK, when I moved here, I haven’t [kayaked]... far because I haven’t been training for a while,"" he said.', '""But now I’m keeping up with it and... [I\'ve] been on a couple of competitions where I’m still getting stronger.""', 'His mother says they are ""safe here"", but they are ""very worried"" about friends still living in Ukraine.', 'Anastasiia said it was ""upsetting"" how long the war was going on for', 'Anastasiia said she was ""very grateful"" to the British people and the government for their support, but the war felt ""like a bad dream still going on"".', 'She left the port city of Odesa after a week because she and her family could not ""stand it"". Now, she lives in Windsor with her husband and two children - one of whom was born in the UK.', '""She\'s growing up as a British girl,"" said Ms Kot.', 'She said she wanted people to keep talking about the war.', '""Some people are asking what the situation is in Ukraine because... people stopped talking about it a lot,"" she said.', '""But the war is still there and it\'s harder than before.""', 'Ms Kot lives in Windsor with her husband and children', 'She had to return to Ukraine briefly to complete some documentation for her daughter.', '""It was stressful, but it was a happy moment to meet friends and family,"" she said.', 'Ms Kot does not know what the future holds for her family, but says the support of her community is getting her through.', '""We are thankful and happy to have each other,"" she said.']"
446,"['Gala Kotova fled the war Ukraine two years ago', 'A Ukrainian refugee has described how she and her young son escaped as a massive fire engulfed a tower block in the Spanish city of Valencia.', 'Gala Kotova, who fled the war in her country two years ago, told the BBC how she put on whatever she could find, grabbed her nine-year-old son and their passports and ran out into the street.', '""Everything was burning really fast, and the wind helped to spread the fire along the building."" she said.', 'Nine people are known to have died.', 'A further person is missing after the blaze ripped through two connected apartment blocks in the neighbourhood of Campanar. Experts have suggested that cladding on the outside of the building could have been a factor in enabling the fire to spread rapidly.', '""I was in the terrace speaking on the phone and I noticed the smoke. It was getting more and more intense,"" said Ms Kotova.', ""She said she called the concierge, who didn't know about the fire at that point, because her Spanish was not good enough yet to call the fire brigade."", 'Then she grabbed her son and ran.', 'She told the BBC she felt lucky to have seen the fire early and escaped but now faced the daunting prospect of rebuilding her life for a second time.', '""I live alone with my child here and I am the only person who can rebuild from scratch something that we just started to rebuild after we left Ukraine,"" she said.', 'This video can not be played', 'Watch: Early videos of Valencia fire show how blaze spread', 'Several Ukrainians reportedly lived in the building.', 'Dymitro Hambarov told El Mundo newspaper that he and his partner saw some smoke on the eight floor after 17:00 local time (16:00 GMT) and that the whole building was on fire within 10 minutes.', '""We arrived in Valencia escaping the bombs in Ukraine and now a fire has left us with nothing"" Mr Hambarov told the newspaper.', 'Did cladding help Valencia fire spread? What we know', 'Ms Kotova said local authorities had also offered help, including transport and hotel accommodation for people to stay in temporarily.', 'And support from her compatriots had been a huge relief, she added.', '""There are lots of Ukrainians in Valencia and now there is already a group chat with 500 people who offered help,"" she said.', ""She became emotional when she saw a spreadsheet had been set up to help match people's needs with donations, she said."", '""Escaping the war, trying to get away from it, the consequences are still catching [up with] us,"" she said.', '""[That] we are strong enough to unite and to support each other, I was truly amazed with that.""']"
447,"['Henry was born in Nuremberg, Germany to Karl and Lore Wuga', 'Henry Wuga is a refugee based in Glasgow, who has just turned 100 years old.', 'In May 1939, as pre-war tensions were rising in his home country of Germany, he escaped to Scotland via a child safety mission known as the Kindertransport.', 'By the time World War II began, he was in Glasgow, a place he now calls home.', 'He and his wife, Ingrid, spent their later lives visiting Scottish schools to educate the younger generation about the Holocaust.', 'Reflecting back on his many years of life, Henry said: ""I may be 100 but I don\'t feel 100. To be 100 is quite an idea.""', ""Henry's daughters say he is well known for his bow tie"", 'Henry was born in Nuremberg in 1924 to Karl and Lore Wuga. ', ""His family was Catholic on his father's side and Jewish on his mother's side and he was raised Jewish."", 'At age 14, he was forced to leave school and began an apprenticeship as a cook in a hotel.', 'After six months, Henry decided to go home on 8 November 1938 –  the day before Kristallnacht, the night of violent Nazi attacks on synagogues and Jewish businesses.', 'In May the following year, he was able to escape the country via the Kindertransport to Scotland, where he was interned as an ""enemy alien"" after the war began.', 'Henry with his mother and father outside their family home', 'This year, the Kindertransport will celebrate its 85th anniversary.', ""The Kindertransport was the name given to the mission which helped 10,000 children to safety ahead of World War Two, to escape from Adolf Hitler's reign in parts of Europe controlled by the Nazis."", 'It is called this as kinder means ""children"" in German.', 'This video can not be played', 'Holocaust Memorial Day: ‘It is imperative to never forget’', '""New language, new food and new people, "" said Henry of his first encounters with Scotland.', '""You just have to cope with it and people being very friendly in Glasgow, it certainly helped. ', '""They took me in and allowed me to do certain things and I became a Glaswegian.""']"
448,"['The Yevstihnieieva family lost their home during the war', ""A Ukrainian mother, with an aggressive form of breast cancer, fled to England with her family to finish treatment when her homeland was invaded. Two years on, she is training to be a maths teacher and her children have settled at school. She believes the government's decision to extend visas until 2026 gives her time to rebuild her life and give something back to the country that offered her sanctuary."", 'Hanna Yevstihnieieva, 37, an English teacher in her home town of Kherson, was diagnosed with stage three breast cancer before the war.', 'When Russian troops invaded her home town, she and her family had a frantic five-month search for doses of chemotherapy at various hospitals so she could continue treatment.', '""I would have just died without any,"" said Hanna, who lost most of her hair during the treatment.', '""The doctor who saved the last dose for me, she said, \'we don\'t have any more, you need to go somewhere else\'.""', 'One of the few surviving pictures of the family in Ukraine', 'Then help came. Hanna, her husband Dmytro and their two children were sponsored by Julie Wright from Colchester. She offered them a place to live in a static home and the family joined the  252,200 other refugees in the UK, external. ', 'But while Hanna was completing her cancer treatment at an English hospital, the family learnt their home in Ukraine was under water.', 'Russian forces bombed the dam in Kherson and the area flooded. Hanna felt her old life could never be remade.', '""You want to cry,"" she said.', '""I\'ve lost friends and some of my memories. I don\'t have my marriage pictures, I don\'t have pictures of my eldest son when he was small.  These are really important things, but you realise that your family is the most important thing in your world, in your life.""', 'Julie Wright from Colchester met the family on a Facebook group and decided to help', ""Hanna is grateful for the support she has received and is waiting to see if her treatment has been successful. She is embarking on a maths degree and volunteers at her sons' school."", '""It\'s such a pleasure to work with the small children,"" she said.', '""They teach me English and I teach them maths, they smile to me and my mood goes up to the sky.""', ""Hanna hopes the government's decision to extend the visa scheme for Ukrainian refugees until at least September 2026 will give her more time to complete her degree and apply for a job in a school. She says it gives her and her husband more certainty."", '""When we heard about the news on the radio and we looked at each other and started smiling... We were laughing and joking.', '""Now I [can] have a goal again, I now have an aim in my life... It gives us a good chance to stay in this country and be useful... and have a life again."" ', ""The Kherson area where Hanna's family lived, after the Nova Kakhovka dam breached, amid Russia's attack on Ukraine"", 'Migration minister Tom Pursglove said the decision to extend visas by 18 months, would provide ""reassurance for Ukrainians in the UK on their future"".', 'But a parliamentary briefing paper, external explained how the government firmly believed that ""Ukraine would be safe again"" and that the country would need the return of its citizens to ""help recover and rebuild their economy"".', ""Hanna and Dmytro's four year old son Daniil can't remember the war. He was only two when it started. He can recall small things about his old house, but plays confidently with his friends on the carpet of the rural reception class."", 'Hanna went through checks so she could get experience volunteering as a teaching assistant.', 'Hanna and her husband Dmytro are conscious that they may have to return to Ukraine one day, so their 10-year-old son Nazar gets up at 6.30am each morning to learn two hours of Ukrainian before school. He remembers a lot.', '""It is my dream that I want to play with my old friends, but they\'re not in Ukraine now, they\'re gone all over the world,"" Nazar said.', 'He is a year older than some of his classmates, because children in Ukraine start school a year later than English pupils. But his sponsor, Julie said each day he is ""becoming more English"" and he plays football for a local club.', 'Daniil only remembers things about Ukraine like his old furniture', 'When he first arrived, Nazar said he did not know what to say to his classmates.', '""It was scary for me, it\'s all different in England, the children from our class just wanted to play with me, and we\'re now friends. This school is so good and I want to stay here forever.""', 'Nazar does two hours of Ukrainian lessons before he starts school in Colchester', ""Half an hour away, Nazar's 37-year-old father, Dmytro, has a full time job in the fruit orchard at Boxted Farms. He did a similar job in Ukraine."", 'The director Robert England has four Ukrainian workers on extended visas.', '""Dmytro\'s filled a full time position, he\'s doing it really well and fits in really well with the team. So my wish, is that if it\'s their wish at the end of all this, that they will be allowed to stay.""', 'Dmytro is trying not to think too far ahead.', '""Of course we understand, if we are needed for this country we can stay,"" he said.', 'Dmytro has a full time job managing the irrigation systems at Boxted Farms in Suffolk', '""If we are not needed we will not stay. We are just living, just working, doing what we can do. If we have a little bit of money and a little opportunity then for these few days we try and travel a bit with our children. ', '""Our previous life showed us you need to savour every moment.""', 'Sponsor Julie said she had had a personal email from the government, thanking her for taking refugees for longer than expected.', '""A thank you is more important than anything... I think Britain should be proud of what it\'s doing.""', 'By 2026, Hanna\'s children will have been in England for four years and Julie thinks they could find it difficult to return to Ukraine: ""They can\'t send them back now, it\'s too long in their lives,"" she said.', ""The family's visa runs out in July 2025"", 'After school, Hanna makes her son Nazar a warm soup, with chicken on the bone. Cuddly toys are stacked on a shelf. As Nazar sits, clinking the spoon against his bowl and his younger brother tests himself on an English learning computer, Hanna considers their future.', '""I want to go back to my country, but I want my children to be safe,"" she said.', '""In my native town, they can\'t be safe, it is occupied for almost two years. There are a lot of bombed territories, a lot of mines, a lot of death... They can get hurt and if that were to happen to them, I would never forgive myself.""']"
449,"['Larysa fled Dnipro in February 2022 at the start of the conflict', '""I have this feeling, I\'m not here, I\'m not there, I\'m nowhere,"" says Larysa.', 'The 40-year-old had a career as an estate agent and a comfortable life in Dnipro but that all changed in February 2022 when war broke out.', 'She and her teenage son fled Ukraine, finding refuge with hosts in Dorset. The rest of the men in her family stayed behind. ', 'Grateful for the kindness she has been shown, she said the change has nevertheless been difficult.', '""I have settled here physically but I cannot settle in my mind,"" she explained. ""I cannot get used to a new country, new rules, new language and habits. I worry about my family in Ukraine.""', 'Larysa was speaking at the home of Ukrainian psychologist Anna Hontaruk in Poole.', ""Ms Hontaruk, who also came to the UK through the government's Homes for Ukraine scheme, has helped dozens of women like Larysa with the psychological challenges they face."", 'Anna Hontaruk offers free sessions at her home in Dorset', '""The main problem is chronic stress,"" she said, adding: ""Despite having shelter and everything vital we need for life, we keep thinking about our country, our uncertain future.', '""A lot of people are ashamed to ask for help, they are used to hiding their emotions and pretend to be unbreakable but this is damaging for their mental health.""', 'Ms Hontaruk runs free sessions which combine talking therapy with physical exercises to release stress.', 'She explained: ""I help people to find internal self-support. I try to help people change their way of thinking and be opened-minded and see a lot of new opportunities, despite their mental condition.""', 'She added after the invasion of Ukraine she was in shock and felt powerless but then realised she could make a difference.', '""Helping people is my passion and being able to do that it is my personal coping strategy,"" Ms Hontaruk said.', 'Viktoria, who has a 13-year-old daughter, ran a successful events company in Ukraine.', 'Viktoria has been helped by Ms Hontaruk', 'She said she has struggled to find a sense of purpose and identity since coming to England.', '""In my imagination, I thought we would come for four, maybe five months,"" she said. ', '""When you are going through an unexpected situation in your life, like war, you have some unexpected feelings and you do not know how you can manage this. Talking with Anna in my own language has been really useful and provided me with tools to help myself.""', 'Larysa, who is working as a teaching assistant, said the sessions have helped her to feel ""a little more hopeful"" and more able to support her 15-year-old son, who has also been separated from friends and wider family. ', '""Talking about the problems is half of solving them,"" she said, continuing: ""I can\'t foresee the future, I am just living in this moment and doing the best I can do.""', 'The free sessions combine talking therapy with physical exercises to release stress']"
450,"['Nadiia Tymoshenko fled her apartment in Cherkasy after the war broke out', 'A mother and daughter who fled the Ukrainian city of Cherkasy have lived in the Derbyshire Dales for almost two years.', 'Nadiia Tymoshenko and Yeva, 13, were among the first of thousands of refugees to move in with hosts across the county.', 'They live with Catherine and Andrew Bailey, who invited them to live in an annexe at their home near Ashbourne.', 'The couple say Nadiia and Yeva have become part of the family.', 'Yeva says she grew up in the UK, arriving as a child, but now describes herself as a teenager', ""The mother and daughter arrived at Yeldersley Hall in May 2022 and live in an annexe previously occupied by Mr Bailey's mother."", 'They could not speak English, but Yeva is now fluent and has lots of English friends at Denstone College, where Mrs Bailey is a teacher.', ""Mr and Mrs Bailey have also helped Yeva's mother resume her career as a nail technician, with Ms Tymoshenko opening her own business in the converted stable block where they live."", ""Many of Ms Tymoshenko's nail customers are other Ukrainian women who live nearby"", 'She said her life had changed completely in the last two years.', '""Everything is different for us. Different language. Different place. Different people. Everything is different,"" she said.', '""I live in a wonderful place with an amazing family.', '""They are really close to me and we have a really warm connection and a similar sense of humour.""', 'Catherine Bailey said hosting had been ""really rewarding"" and hoped to visit Ukraine in better times', 'Ms Tymoshenko regularly speaks to her family, who are still in Ukraine, including her younger brother who used to be a footballer. He is now on the front line.', 'Ms Tymoshenko and Yeva went back to visit their friends and relatives in Cherkasy last summer.', 'They said they heard loud explosions the night they arrived and saw flashes from anti-missile defences.', 'As the full-scale war enters its third year, Ms Tymoshenko and Yeva have been told they will be able to apply for an 18-month ""Homes for Ukraine"" visa extension.', 'Andrew Bailey said refugees were ""really happy"" in Derbyshire', 'Mr Bailey said the announcement was a ""tremendous relief"" for many Ukrainians in Ashbourne.', 'He added: ""There\'s obviously big problems still out in Ukraine and the idea that they might be forced to go back there was leaving them really uncertain about their futures.""', 'Ms Tymoshenko said she hoped to eventually go back to Ukraine and dreamed of the war ending.', 'She added: ""We will be happy to be back home if it\'s finished. We\'ll be safe. It will be hard to start again but I will be ready to do this in Ukraine.""', 'Yeva, however, wants to stay in England and settle in a big city like London.', 'She said: ""I want to be a designer or lawyer. I see my future in both countries.""']"
451,"['This video can not be played', 'Millions of people have been forced to leave their homes and jobs behind and live in camps after an escalation in the conflict between M23 rebels and DR Congo government forces. ', 'The BBC talks to two internally displaced people about their new reality.', 'Video produced by Beryl Wambani and edited by Mark Sedgwick']"
452,"['Tetiana Martynova\'s hosts said people lives in Wales were ""hugely enriched"" by knowing her', 'A woman who fled the Russian invasion of Ukraine with her 13-year-old son has died after being hit by a car. ', 'Tetiana Martynova, 40, from Kharkiv, Ukraine, came to Swansea as a refugee in July 2022.', 'South Wales Police said she died after being struck by a Chevrolet Captiva as she walked on Neath Road in Morriston at about 18:20 GMT on Wednesday.', 'Her hosts called her ""committed and diligent in her tender care of [her son] Illia"".', 'They said she was known in the area as Tania and was ""an impressive woman, multi-lingual, intelligent, high-flying, hard-working"".', 'Ukrainian refugee children almost fluent in Welsh', 'Concern over closure of Ukraine welcome centres', ""Ukraine family's housing fears as hotel stay ends"", 'They described her as a ""stalwart"" of the Ukrainian community in Swansea whose ""warm and pleasant personality permeated every gathering"".', 'They added: ""Her numerous friends and work colleagues are all devastated by her sudden passing.', '""Our thoughts and prayers are with Illia here in Wales and Tania\'s family back in Ukraine. ', '""Tania became like a daughter to us both. Our tears flow for a remarkable young woman. Ukraine has lost one of its finest.""']"
453,"['The Black Horse ceased trading in 2020 and is currently used as a community venue', 'Plans to house a family of Ukrainian refugees in a former village pub have been been thrown out at appeal.', 'Under the plans, The Black Horse in Cold Ashby, Northamptonshire, would have been used as accommodation for a family of five for up to three years.', 'The former pub is currently being used as a community venue for members of the public.', 'The original plans were rejected by West Northamptonshire Council in October 2022.', 'It said the plans would result in the ""loss of a community facility"" and affect the ""economic and social sustainability of the existing community"", according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service.', ""Northamptonshire-based charity, Friendship Zone, which runs the facility, took the council's refusal to appeal."", 'It appeal was dismissed on February 1 as it conflicted with planning policies ""resisting"" the loss of public houses. ', 'The Planning Inspectorate found no ""compelling evidence"" that the venue would be unable to reopen as a pub and continue trading in the future.', 'The decision was also upheld on the basis that turning the pub into accommodation would be an ""unnecessary loss""... severing its important role of meeting the ""day to day needs of rural communities"".', 'The planning inspector, J Moore, said: ""The proposal would provide an opportunity for the community to show solidarity with the suffering of the Ukrainian nation. ', '""However, while I empathise with this, it has not been demonstrated that the proposal is the only way for the community to achieve this objective.""', 'Paul Kuznecovs, director of Friendship Zone, said he believed the facility would have ""really made a difference"" to Ukrainian people wanting to relocate to the UK and ""totally disagreed"" with the appeal decision. ', 'He said: ""We are disappointed that our appeal has been refused; however, we accept strong feelings of some community members about The Black Horse. ', '""The part of the community has unequivocally spoken that while they support people of Ukraine, they do not believe a small rural village is the right place to accommodate refugees.""']"
454,"['Somerset Council has been given £3.5m of government funding for the homes', 'More than 30 homes are being bought for Ukrainian and Afghan refugees in Somerset.', 'Somerset Council has been provided with £3.5m of government funding which it is using to buy 31 properties.', ""The homes will be re-let\xa0to people on the council's housing list once the refugees have left or relocated to a different part of the country."", 'The council said 10 homes have been bought so far. A further nine homes are in the process of being bought.', ""The government's local authority housing fund (LAHF) provides capital funding to local councils, allowing them to purchase accommodation for refugees coming to the UK under official resettlement schemes, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service."", ""The funding was confirmed in a report which came before the council's tenants' strategic\xa0group when it met in Taunton on 22 January."", '""The homes are 100% funded by the LAHF and other subsidy available to the council,"" a council spokesperson said.', '""The 31 properties across Somerset are predominantly in the urban areas of the larger settlements. We can\'t provide precise locations for security reasons.', '""The majority of homes are houses with only a small number being flats. ', '""These families can continue to live in these homes until such time as they choose to move or their right to remain in the UK changes.""', 'The council is currently constructing new social housing within Taunton, as part of its flagship North Taunton Woolaway regeneration programme, and at Seaward Way in Minehead.', 'Each completed property within these sites will be offered via Homefinder with priority being given to people with a strong connection to the local area.', 'A spokesman said: ""We will complete construction of 47 new homes in Taunton and eight in Minehead by early-April.', '""Homes in Sedgemoor has forecast\xa0another 55 new home completions for the same period.""']"
455,"['John Fieldsend was one of the 669 children who escaped Czechoslovakia through the Kindertransport trains arranged by British stockbroker Nicholas Winton', 'The voice of Adolf Hitler is forever ""locked"" into the memory of 92-year-old former Kindertransport refugee John Fieldsend BEM, who arrived in England in 1939.', ""Loudspeakers in the streets of Dresden, where his family lived in Germany, made Hitler's booming rants about Jews inescapable - even from home."", 'At the age of five, John\'s life began to change. Friends he had known for years suddenly turned against him, becoming violent and calling his family ""dirty Jews"".', 'After cutting his head on a radiator at home, John was taken to the doctor who said he needed stitches - but was told: ""I don\'t stitch Jews.""', ""His parents knew they needed to leave, so drove to John's grandparents' house in Czechoslovakia. Things were secure again for the family until Hitler invaded in March 1939, when John's life was turned upside down again."", 'This Holocaust Memorial Day, Kindertransport refugees who made England their home have shared their stories with the BBC.', ""The Kindertransport (German for 'children's transport') was a series of rescue efforts between 1938 and 1940 that brought about 10,000 mostly Jewish refugee children to Great Britain from Nazi Germany."", 'John was one of the 669 children who escaped Czechoslovakia without their parents through the trains arranged by British stockbroker Nicholas Winton, a story that was recently brought to the big screen.', 'Jewish child refugees arriving from Germany in London in February 1939', 'At seven years old, John recalls the ""bewilderment"" he felt when he was taken to the local train station with his brother Arthur and watched their parents wave goodbye.', '""I think the crunch point came when my mother took her wrist watch off, passed it through the window to me and said, \'This is for you to remember us by\',"" he said.', 'On arrival in England, John and his brother were eventually separated and lived with different foster families in Sheffield.', '""My first memory was actually seeing an open coal fire,"" he said. ""On the continent we\'d only ever had closed combustion stoves - I thought the house was on fire!""', 'He describes his foster parents as ""just lovely...very caring"" people, and lived with them until he got married in 1961.', 'Now a retired Anglican vicar, father of three and grandfather of seven, John lives in Oxford and works with the Holocaust Educational Trust to share his testimony.', 'John Fieldsend (right) with his brother Arthur (left) and John, the son of his foster parents', 'In 1942, he stopped hearing from his parents in Czechoslovakia. ', 'Soon after the end of World War Two, the Red Cross delivered a parcel to John containing photo albums and a farewell letter written by his parents before their internment in a concentration camp in Nazi Germany occupied Poland.', ""It's a letter John still holds to this day, the words retain the searing poignancy of one family's tragedy."", ""John's brother Arthur with their parents Trude and Curt Feige"", 'Dear Boys,', 'From Mother', ""When you receive this letter, the war will be over, because our friendly messenger won't be able to send it earlier. We want to say farewell to you, who were our dearest possession in the world, and only for a short time were we able to keep you."", ""Fate has not left us for months now. In January 1942, the Weilers were taken; we still don't know where to and whether they are still alive. In June, Grandmother Betty. In September, Aunt Marion, Uncle Will and Paul. In October, your Steiner grandparents. In November, your 90-year-old great-grandmother and the Bermans. In December, it will be our turn."", 'The time has therefore come for us to turn to you again, and to ask you to become good men, and think of the years we were happy together. We are going into the unknown; not a word is to be heard from those already taken.', ""Thank those who have kept you from a similar fate. You took a piece of your poor parents' hearts with you, when we decided to give you away. Give our thanks and gratitude to all who are good to you."", 'From Father', ""Your dear mother has told you about the hard fate of all our loved ones. We too will not be spared and will go bravely into the unknown, with the hope that we shall yet see you again when God wills. Don't forget us, and be good."", 'I too thank all the good people who have accepted you so nobly.', 'Signed,', 'Curt & Trude Feige, 1943', 'For John, the Holocaust must continue to be remembered, even amongst the many terrible things happening in the world.', '""One thing that we, as a Jewish community, must be aware of, we mustn\'t portray ourselves as a poor victim community,"" he added. ', '""We\'ve got much more to contribute in a positive way than that. We are not just a victim community.""', 'Karen Pollock CBE, chief executive of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said the reported rise in antisemitism meant ""it is more important than ever to remember the six million Jewish victims and remind ourselves that anti-Jewish racism did not begin nor end with the Holocaust"".', 'Michael Newman, CEO of the Association of Jewish Refugees, the national organisation representing and supporting Holocaust survivors, said they were ""acutely sensitised to the fragility of freedom"", the theme for this year\'s Holocaust Memorial Day. ', '""Today it is vital, that as a nation, we collectively remember the victims of the Holocaust,"" he said.', '""Both to honour those whose lives were ripped apart by antisemitism and to ensure that the experiences of the survivors and refugees, and their families, are never forgotten.""', 'But in 2024, does the UK feel as welcome to refugees as it did when John arrived?', '""It\'s difficult one,"" he said. ""I have to say at the moment, I don\'t think it is.', '""In 1939, Britain was a welcoming place, but it took the hard work of people like Nicholas Winton.""', 'Artist Ruth Schwiening works with the Association of Jewish Refugees to tell her Kindertransport story', 'Ruth Schwiening, 88, remembers nothing of the Kindertransport.', 'In 1939, at the age of three, she travelled from an orphanage in Berlin to London.', 'Meanwhile, her father was imprisoned in Dachau Concentration Camp in Germany, and her mother was left to find a way out of the country for the rest of the family. ', '""I knew quite a few friends who did remember, and it really, I think, almost destroyed their lives,"" she said.', '""When you get older, you think back to the past, and you try to recollect what has happened, and you\'re almost eaten by the past rather than the present.""', 'A Jewish organisation had been approaching people whose husbands were in concentration camps to offer the Kindertransport route. ', ""They got in touch with Ruth's mother Hilde, but said they could only take one child."", 'Ruth says they told her mother: ""We can take the girl because girls are easier to be fostered than boys.""', 'She said: ""I often ask the question when I\'m giving talks: What would you have done? Knowing, perhaps, that you will never see the girl again?""', ""Ruth Schwiening's UK travel document shows her transport was arranged by the Inter-Aid Committee for Children"", ""Ruth's foster parents were Mr and Mrs Hart, a middle-class Jewish family in London who had one daughter, Geraldine."", 'Ruth remembers being happy with her foster parents, and having the feeling of security ""probably [for] the first time"".', ""But one day in March 1940, to everyone's amazement, Ruth's mother Hilde appeared at the door."", 'Her foster parents had been told that her mother and father were in a concentration camp and very unlikely to survive.', '""Little Ruth, give me a kiss"", Hilde said to her daughter.', 'But Ruth had forgotten her mother. ""I apparently looked at her and said, \'My mummy says I must not kiss strangers\'.""', ""All of Ruth's clothes and toys were parcelled up in a big box, and she reunited with her whole family who had settled in Nuneaton, Warwickshire."", 'Hilde pictured with Ruth and her twin brother Michael', 'In 1940, the horrors of World War Two were their taking their toll on Hilde.', ""In the summer and autumn, Britain fought a major air campaign against Germany called the Battle of Britain, to prevent the Nazis' planned invasion."", 'Ruth\'s father Lothar had been taken away to an internment camp on the Isle of Man for ""enemy aliens"", and Hilde feared a successful invasion could spell a death sentence for her family. ', 'Hilde told Ruth and her two brothers: ""If the Germans come and fetch us, or try to, there\'s poison upstairs. I will take the poison, and I\'ll give it to you as well.""', 'The most important lesson future generations should take from Holocaust survivors, Ruth says, is to ""not to judge people by their religion, by their colour, by their race. To recognise [their] prejudices"".', '""Soon as we recognise a prejudice, we can then learn and try to overcome that prejudice, make us more sympathetic and understanding,"" she said.', ""Ruth too believes the warm welcome she received as a refugee wouldn't be as warm today."", '""What are we doing thinking of sending people to Rwanda? What are we doing thinking of putting people isolated on cruisers? Which are no more than prisons really,"" she said, referring to the UK\'s plan to send asylum seekers to Rwanda and the housing of migrants on a barge.', '""I can\'t understand. We could, as a country, do a lot more.""']"
456,"['Herefordshire Council will divide the funding between nine different community organisations', 'A further £713,000 is to be spent over the next year in Herefordshire in a bid to help bring more Ukrainian refugees to the county.', 'The government-funded scheme is intended to support existing community efforts, but also to encourage new projects and activities.', 'The scheme is to be delivered via nine different community organisations.', 'It is set to support refugees with training, mental health and wellbeing, and general resettlement. ', 'Herefordshire Council will distribute its Support for Ukraine Community Integration grants to the following organisations from the start of February through to January next year:', 'Hereford Help for Ukraine (£99,887)', 'Hereford Diocesan Board of Finance (£94,168)', 'HVOSS (Herefordshire Voluntary Organisations Support Service) (£93,759)', 'Herefordshire MIND (£81,980)', 'Halo Leisure Services (£67,937)', 'South Wye Development Trust (£64,792)', 'ETHOS (Extending The hand Of Support) (£64,222)', 'St Peter and St James Church, Hereford (£55,200)', 'Hereford Help for Ukraine (further project) (£54,421)', 'HVOSS young people pilot project (£20,891)', 'Herefordshire Football Association (£15,649).', ""Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine nearly two years ago, 750 Ukrainians have arrived in Herefordshire through the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, about three in ten of them children."", 'With no end to the conflict in sight, ""there are still more Ukrainians seeking to move to the UK, but this is limited by the number of hosts who are available"", the county council said.', 'This news was gathered by the Local Democracy Reporting Service which covers councils and other public service organisations.']"
457,"['The school also arranged for nearly 100 refugee children living in nearby hotels to receive Christmas presents', 'A primary school has helped to raise enough money to rehome a new family.', ""St Saviour's Church of England primary school in Walthamstow, north-east London, is part of a programme, Sanctuary for Schools, working with refugee organisations."", 'Along with the local mosque, they raised £15,000 help Sundus and her father Abdullah settle into a new home.', 'Sundus, seven, has been at the school since December after fleeing Aleppo in Syria.', 'After much of their city was destroyed in the civil war, they travelled to Turkey before being resettled in London.', 'From left: students Jeanette, Chioma, Lois and Abisha', 'Abdullah, who was rehoused by a Home Office-approved sponsorship scheme, said he did not have the words to express his gratitude, and Sundus said everyone at he school greeted her on her arrival.', 'A pupil at the school, 11-year-old Chioma, told BBC London said she was happy the school could help.', '""I want to be a welcoming person and I want to make friends with people from different backgrounds,"" she said.', 'Another pupil, 10-year-old Abisha, said: ""At first I didn\'t know anything about refugees or asylum seekers. But now I know refugees are forced to leave their country because of many dangerous things and they don\'t want to leave their country.""', 'Sundas and her father Abdullah are grateful for the help they have received', ""Principal of St Saviour's Amir Lemouchi wants the school to offer kindness and care"", 'School principal Amir Lemouchi said: ""We have built a community of parents, children and staff who are really understanding of the plight of refugees.', '""Being a school of sanctuary has been important in terms of how we deliver that knowledge and understanding to the wider community and children so they can really understand why people from all sorts of places have to leave their home.', '""Refugees are living nearby in hotels and the children have been doing a huge amount of work for the children in the hotels. We\'re to find as many opportunities as we can to show kindness and care in the smallest possible way.""', 'Iftikar Latif, a volunteer at Faizan Islam mosque, which has also been helping to raise money, said: ""In these troubling times, the opportunity to work with St Saviour\'s Church of England School has been incredible.', '""We have so much in common in our faith, and beyond faith, and sharing those humanitarian ideals and knowing there are people out there suffering and we can do something to help them.""']"
458,"['About 150 people from Ukraine were supported on island', 'A new government refugee policy is an ""excuse list"" that does not move the Isle of Man\'s stance forward, an MHK has said.', 'Tynwald members debated the Refugee Policy Statement during January’s sitting, after members agreed a ""transparent and updated plan"" on the acceptance of people fleeing warzones should be created in April 2022.', 'Michelle Haywood MHK said it was ""100 vague reasons"" why the island would not develop ""a workable policy"", rather than a document that considered resources and created a resettlement pathway.', 'But Cabinet Office Minister Kate Lord-Brennan said the statement was ""well thought out"" and gave the Council of Ministers a framework to work to. ', 'The report said ""due to it\'s relationship with the UK"", asylum applications could not be processed on the island and further consideration would be given to ""assess the feasibility"" of being part of the other jurisdiction\'s resettlement scheme.', ""It outlined that the island's capacity to provide access to education, housing and medical care should be considered when activating a response to support displaced people."", 'The statement also confirmed that Isle of Man Homes for Ukraine Scheme supported about 150 displaced people following the conflict with Russia, with an operating cost of more than £240,000.', 'Calling on members to reject the policy, Joney Faragher MHK, said ministers had not done ""what they were asked to do"" and  it was ""immeasurably diminishing and disempowering"" that the language used ""tried to feign powerlessness on the part of our proud country"".', 'Meanwhile, Dr Haywood said it had been a ""missed opportunity"" to create a scheme to accept refugees ""within our own capacity"".', 'But Ms Lord-Brennan said she had given ""no undertaking"" that there would be resettlement scheme put in place when during the previous debate in April 2022.', 'She said the policy should be ""safe and successful"" and had take into consideration what was ""in the interest of the Isle of Man and the capacity and capability of government to cope to support any refugees coming here"".', 'While Ms Faragher had called for Tynwald members to reject the document, politicians ultimately backed an amendment by Ms Lord-Brennan to receive the Refugee Policy Statement and Report 2023.']"
459,"['Inna Sudareva moved to Lavenham, Suffolk, in June 2022 with her daughter Lesya', 'A Ukrainian woman who moved to Suffolk to escape her war-torn country has found love in her host village.', 'Inna Sudareva, 51, moved to Lavenham with her daughter Lesya in June 2022, under the Homes for Ukraine scheme.', 'In September of the same year, she met her husband-to-be Roger at a bus stop in the village, and he proposed one year later.', 'Ms Sudareva said ""I am a very lucky woman"", with the pair due to be married on 23 January.', 'Inna Sudareva met her husband-to-be at a bus stop in Lavenham', '""He is very kind. He is very gentle. He has a very nice sense of humour,"" she said of Roger, adding that he took the time to describe things to her in very simple words.', 'Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, which caused at least 12 million people to flee their homes.', 'Ms Sudareva, whose son is still fighting in the war, said that her family were happy for the couple, and she hoped to take Roger to Ukraine once the war was over. ', 'Nicky McAllister, who hosted Ms Sudareva and Lesya, said: ""I\'m very, very pleased for her because she\'s fitted into the village so well.""', 'Inna Sudareva - and her daughter Lesya - have been living with host Nicky McAllister', 'Speaking on being a host, Mrs McAllister said: ""It\'s been a huge learning curve for both my husband and for me, to understand how other people live and their different lives coming from Eastern Europe.', '""Inna and Lesya have been such delightful guests... they have fitted in like extended family.""', 'Together, the ladies have planned a wedding that encompasses both British and Ukrainian tradition.', '""We\'ve got some Ukrainian readings, some English readings, the Lord\'s Prayer in the English and Ukrainian,"" said Mrs McAllister. ""We\'ve got some Ukrainian music for them to come into and the tradition of holding crowns over their heads when they\'re being blessed.""', 'After the wedding, Ms Sudareva plans to move in with her new husband but says she will still live very close to Nicky.']"
460,"['This video can not be played', ""Rwandan President Kagame has offered to return money given to his country by UK taxpayers for the government's flagship asylum plan if no refugees end up going to Rwanda."", 'In an exclusive BBC video filmed at the World Economic Forum, Mr Kagame was asked about the Supreme Court\'s ruling that his country was unsafe, replying that issues with the Rwanda plan are the ""UK\'s problem"" not Rwanda\'s.', 'He told the BBC’s Economics Editor Faisal Islam money ""is only going to used if those people will come"" and could be returned if asylum seekers do not arrive.']"
461,"['Seven homes have been purchased so far in Calcot, Thatcham, Newbury and Hungerford', 'Displaced families from Ukraine and Afghanistan will begin moving into new homes this week thanks to a £9m housing project.', 'West Berkshire Council aims to provide 27 new homes for refugees who arrived under government resettlement schemes but do not have suitable accommodation.', 'Seven houses and flats have been purchased across the county so far.', 'The council said it is working to deliver the remaining accommodation by spring this year.', 'Homes have been purchased in Calcot, Thatcham, Newbury and Hungerford.', 'Denise Gaines, West Berkshire Council executive member for housing, believes the scheme will help vulnerable people in the area', 'The council also hopes to transform its former West Point House office in Newbury into apartments.', 'Councillor Denise Gaines, executive member for housing, said: ""This scheme will help us to support vulnerable people who have moved to our district from areas of the world which are unsafe for them. ', '""It will allow them a place to settle and in time, as they move on, leave us with accommodation we can use to across our wider housing service.', '""This project has been enabled through central government funding as well as West Berkshire Council funding and is in addition to the support we already provide. ', '""It means we can help those arriving under settlement schemes without impacting on the services we provide for residents who need our help now or in the future.""', 'The government has given West Berkshire Council £3.6m through its Local Authority Housing Fund, which was set up to help councils supporting displaced families arriving in the UK.', 'Families from Ukraine were displaced after Russian troops invaded their home country in February 2022, while refugees from Afghanistan fled the country after the Taliban takeover in 2021.']"
462,"['Nadia said she was ""overwhelmed at the generosity"" of her son\'s schoolfriends', 'A mother and son who fled Ukraine said it meant ""the world"" for him to visit home over Christmas thanks to a fundraising campaign by his friends.', 'Nadia and Theodore, nine, have been living in Greater Manchester since the Russian invasion began. ', 'Theodore was reunited with his father and the rest of his family after he and his friends did a sponsored camp out.', 'The six schoolfriends are now cycling to raise cash for children affected by the Israel-Gaza conflict.', 'Nadia told BBC North West Tonight her family were ""overwhelmed at the generosity"" of his her son\'s friends.', '""Actually it means all the world to us,"" she said, shortly after returning from the trip.', '""It is so amazing when children of that age are thinking of the future and thinking of what is happening in the world."" ', 'Theodore and his friends are now taking on a virtual cycle for children affected by the Israel-Gaza war', 'Theodore said his favourite things about the journey were ""seeing a lot of my family"" and getting to room share with his father. ', 'The camp-out fundraiser also helped Theodore return to Ukraine in the summer holidays.', 'His friend Liam, who came up with the idea, also set their latest challenge to virtually cycle the distance between Manchester and the Middle East - about 2,400 miles (3,860 km) - to raise money for clothes and toys for children in Gaza. ', 'Nine-year-old Liam said: ""I just felt as if it\'s unfair. We need to do another thing for other people as well."" ', 'He said this one was ""probably"" harder than the camp-out challenge.', 'Alan Sherliker, who is hosting Nadia and Theodore, said it was ""tremendous"" what the boys were doing', 'His mother Gemma said she was ""so proud"" of the boys.', 'She said it brought ""tears to my eyes"" the way they all got involved.', 'The group of six fundraisers have currently notched up more than 500 miles.', '""If you keep on going we\'ll make it and it will be a joy,"" said James, one of the fundraisers.', 'The group did an outdoor ride alongside Alan Sherliker, who has been hosting Nadia and Theodore.', '""We did ten miles along the River Mersey. It\'s a tremendous thing that they doing,"" he said.', '""It is a lot of effort and it\'s worthwhile.""']"
463,"['The Novotel in Ipswich housed asylum seekers between October 2022 and November 2023', 'A council leader has claimed concerns about the Government placing asylum seekers in a town centre hotel may have been ""misplaced"".', 'The Ipswich Novotel was used by the Home Office to house migrants from October 2022 to November 2023.', 'Ipswich Borough Council initially said the move would put an ""unsustainable"" strain on local services.', 'Labour council leader Neil McDonald has now said: ""I don\'t believe there have been a lot of problems.""', 'The government announced in October it would stop using 50 hotels to host asylum seekers by the end of January.', 'Mr McDonald said: ""We were concerned that the support that was available in the town would be spread very thinly if we had to provide support for 200 extra people...', '""Perhaps that was misplaced.""', 'Demonstrators opposed to the hotel being used to house refugees gathered outside the premises in March 2023', 'He said volunteers groups ""stepped up"" to help refugees in the town, including Suffolk Refugee Support. ', 'Mr McDonald added he was ""delighted"" the hotel will reopen, as the council are ""keen to revitalise the town centre"".', 'When the hotel was confirmed as a venue to house asylum seekers, the former leader of the council, David Ellesmere, said he was concerned about the effect it would have on ""attracting visitors to the town"".', ""And in March 2023, a group of about 30 people gathered to demonstrate against the Home Office's use of the hotel. "", 'Martin Simmonds, from Suffolk Refugee Support, said it had been the group\'s ""busiest year"".', '""Suffolk should be proud of playing a part in supporting those people.""', ""In October 2022, David Ellesmere said Ipswich was taking 95% of the county's asylum seekers"", 'However, he believed the system for moving asylum seekers to other accommodation was ""impersonal"".', 'A Home Office spokesperson confirmed residents accommodated in hotels were given a minimum of five days notice in advance of being moved, and said: ""We take the welfare of those in our care extremely seriously.""', 'The Novotel, which housed about 200 asylum seekers at capacity, is currently undertaking works to reopen ""as soon as possible to welcome back old and new guests"", a hotel spokesperson has said. ']"
464,"[""Simon Pirrett (left), Ahsan Karimi (middle), John Conway (right) following Ahsan Karimi's winning bout in October"", 'A teenage refugee who started boxing after arriving in the UK two years ago is looking to a future in the sport after becoming a national champion.', 'Ahsan Karimi, 18, who lives in Bristol, has been training at Sweatbox Gym, South Bristol, under coach John Conway.', 'The teen and his family fled Kabul, Afghanistan, in 2021, and were housed near the gym in Redcliffe, Bristol.', 'Mr Conway said: ""It\'s quite unprecedented to have two years training and win the championships.""', ""Mr Conway met Ahsan's father through a friend and offered the family membership at Sweatbox Gym, which he co-owns."", 'When Ahsan began taking boxing classes, aged 16, Mr Conway said the teenager ""quickly showed promise"". ', 'Mr Conway said ""It\'s quite unprecedented"" to win the championships with only two years\' training', 'Over the next two years Ahsan said he focussed and worked hard to win eight of nine fights before heading to the National Development Championships in Cannock, Staffordshire, in October.', 'He said it made him ""very happy"" to become the National Youth Champion at 67kg.', '""I worked very hard, I trained very hard and I went through all these hardships to become the champion today.', '""My family was very happy, especially my parents [who] encouraged me a lot and I [will] try to bring more happiness to my family.""', 'Ahsan said his parents encouraged him a lot and were very happy with his success', 'Mr Conway said: ""The final was a real barn stormer. The most experienced person in the group who was expected to win... Ahsan went on to beat them.', '""He improved every time he boxed to win against far more experienced people.', '""He\'s training in the gym three times a week and there\'s a really good vibe at the gym with lots of friends made.""', 'Mr Conway said everyone there is really proud of Ahsan after watching his journey over such a short time. ', '""I\'m just really pleased we were able to help him and give him the opportunity which he seized with both hands,"" Mr Conway added.', 'Ahsan said he hopes to become World Champion one day', 'Ahsan said: ""Sweatbox is my second home. I am forever grateful to them for this opportunity... and a special thanks to my coach John who has helped me a lot in my training.""', 'He said he looks forward to continuing training with his friends and will try to achieve more success in the future.', '""I hope to become a world champion one day and be a hero to my homeland and be able to train other champions,"" he added.']"
465,"['This video can not be played', 'Two sisters who fled Ukraine following the invasion by Russia have found happiness through dancing, their mum has said.', 'Zlata, 11, and Zina, aged seven, have impressed judges with their skills and won several competitions since moving from Kyiv to Fleckney in Leicestershire.', ""Their mum Viktoriia said continuing their passion for dancing had improved her daughters' confidence and helped them to settle into their new lives."", '""It\'s the reason for their happiness,"" she added.', 'Video journalist: Alex Thorp']"
466,"['Israel\'s military chief said the war with Hamas would last ""many more months""', 'Israel is expanding its ground offensive into Palestinian refugee camps in central Gaza, as it warns the war with Hamas will last for months.', 'The UN has expressed grave concern after Israeli strikes reportedly killed dozens of people in Bureij, Nuseirat and Maghazi camps in recent days.', 'Heavy fighting is also continuing to the south, in the city of Khan Younis.', 'Meanwhile, the Palestinian president has described what is happening in Gaza as ""beyond a war of annihilation"".', 'The Hamas-run health ministry has said at least 195 people have been killed across the territory over the past 24 hours.', 'More than 21,100 have been killed - mostly children and women - during 11 weeks of fighting, according to the ministry.  ', 'The war was triggered by an unprecedented cross-border attack by Hamas gunmen on southern Israel on 7 October, in which at least 1,200 people were killed - most of them civilians - and about 240 others taken hostage.', 'Stakes are immense as Biden presses Israel to change course', 'Why are Israel and Hamas fighting in Gaza?', 'Palestinian media cited local officials and witnesses as saying dozens of civilians were killed as Israel kept up its strikes across Gaza overnight.', 'Heavy bombardment was reported in the Middle Area, particularly in Bureij, Maghazi and Nuseirat camps.', 'In Nuseirat, Israeli warplanes targeted the homes of the Nasser and Hazouqi families, killing a number of people and wounding dozens more, according to the official Wafa news agency, external. ', 'Hamas-affiliated Safa news agency also reported that five had been killed in a strike on a girls school in Maghazi.', 'Residents meanwhile told Reuters news agency that there was heavy fighting east and north of Bureij district and in the nearby village of Juhr al-Deek.', 'Israel has ordered the evacuation of areas of central Gaza where the UN says more than 150,000 people are living', 'There was no immediate comment from the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), but spokesman Rear Admiral Daniel Hagari told reporters on Tuesday evening that its forces had ""expanded the combat to the area known as the Central Camps"". ', 'The IDF had earlier released videos and photos that it said showed several tanks operating on the outskirts of one of the camps, as well as a tunnel shaft and a Hamas training facility discovered in Bureij. ', 'It also reiterated an order for residents to leave more than a dozen central areas running from the Gaza-Israel perimeter to the coast, including Bureij and Nuseirat camps.', 'According to the UN, the affected areas were home to nearly 90,000 people before the war. They also now include six shelters hosting about 61,000 displaced people, mostly from the north.', 'The residents have been told to move immediately to shelters in the nearby town of Deir al-Balah, which is already struggling to cope with several hundred thousand displaced people.', ""The UN human rights office  said on Tuesday that it was gravely concerned, external about the continued bombardment of the Middle Area and its densely populated camps, citing a report from Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) that Deir al-Balah's al-Aqsa hospital had admitted 131 dead following Israeli strikes on Maghazi and Bureij on Sunday. "", 'It also warned of a ""deepening and already catastrophic humanitarian situation"", saying that all roads connecting the three camps had been destroyed and that any shelters and hospitals still operating were critically overcrowded and under-resourced. ', 'A Palestinian woman living in the UK, Alaa, told the BBC that her family had been in Maghazi during Sunday\'s strikes and were ""having to live with... constant loss, constant fear"".', '""Pulling people from under the rubble and losing friends, losing family members, being displaced, losing homes,"" she said. ""My four-year-old nephew... had to evacuate with my family the other day and he was crying, asking for his dad who was killed a month ago.""', 'The bombardment of the north and south of Gaza also continued on Wednesday. ', 'In the afternoon, the Hamas-run health ministry said 20 people had been killed in an Israeli air strike on a house where displaced people were staying near the al-Amal hospital in Khan Younis.', 'The Palestinian Red Crescent, which runs the hospital, said dozens were killed or wounded and posted a graphic video that showed paramedics and bystanders retrieving several bodies on a street.', 'The IDF has not yet commented on the incident, but a spokesperson did appear to confirm reports from Tuesday that Israel had handed over the bodies of 80 Palestinians after checking there were no hostages among them.', '""During the war, bodies have been transported to Israel for an identification procedure as part of our effort to locate the hostages and the missing persons,"" the spokesperson said.', 'It is believed that more than 100 hostages remain alive in Gaza, after 105 were released from captivity in late November, most of them Israeli women and children. A number of bodies have also been recovered and Israeli officials have confirmed the deaths of more than 20 people who had been held by Hamas.', 'This video can not be played', 'Watch: Drone shots show Palestinians buried in mass grave', ""Israel's been under pressure from its closest ally, the US, to lower the intensity of its military operations in Gaza and reduce the number of civilian deaths, but there is no sign of that happening yet. "", 'The IDF\'s chief of staff, Lt Gen Herzi Halevi, warned that the fighting with Hamas was taking place in ""a complex area"", external and would therefore ""continue for many more months"". ', '""There are no magic solutions or shortcuts in the fundamental dismantling of a terrorist organisation, except persistent and determined fighting, and we are very, very determined,"" he added. ', '""We will also get to the Hamas leadership, whether it takes a week or months.""', 'He was speaking amid new signs of rising regional tensions with incidents linked to Iran-backed groups in the Red Sea, on the Lebanese border and in Iraq.', 'In his first interview since the start of the war, the Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas - a political rival of Hamas who is based in the Israeli-occupied West Bank - said it was unprecedented in Palestinian history.', '""What\'s happening in the Palestinian territories is far beyond a disaster and far more than a genocide. The Palestinians have never seen anything like this,"" he told Egypt\'s ON TV.', 'Mr Abbas also warned that the West Bank could implode at any time.', 'On Wednesday, six Palestinians, including a 17-year-old boy, were killed in a drone strike during an Israeli raid on a refugee camp near the western West Bank town of Tulkarm, according to the Palestinian health ministry. ', 'The IDF said six ""armed terrorists"" were killed in an air strike after they threw explosive devices at troops carrying out an operation to arrest wanted people.']"
467,"['This video can not be played', 'The Hamas-run health ministry in Gaza has said at least 70 people were killed in an Israeli air strike at Al-Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza. ', 'Health ministry spokesman Ashraf al-Qudra  said the strike had destroyed a densely populated residential block and that the death toll was likely to rise given the large number of families living the area.', 'The injured were taken to nearby Al-Aqsa Hospital.', 'The Israeli military has said that it is looking at reports of an incident in the Maghazi camp. ', 'In a statement to the BBC, they said that despite the challenges posed by Hamas operating within civilian areas in Gaza, the military was committed to international law including taking feasible steps to minimise harm to civilians.']"
468,"['This video can not be played', ""A Ukrainian refugee who fled her home following Russia's invasion says baking gingerbread houses has helped her to cope with the trauma of the war."", 'Daria Tarasevych, 32, gave up her job as a management consultant in Kyiv to start a gingerbread business before the war began.', 'Now living in Ratcliffe-on-Soar, Nottinghamshire, with her husband and son, Daria described the long process of making the gingerbread houses and decorations as a kind of ""meditation"".', '""I\'m trying to fill myself with something good,"" she said. ""I put soul into it.""', 'Video journalist: Alex Thorp']"
469,"['Joseff Gnagbo says he has been denied free bus travel about 10 times, despite being eligible for the scheme', 'A refugee who became a Welsh language activist has said he has been ""humiliated and discriminated"" against after being denied free bus travel, despite being eligible.', 'Joseff Gnagbo, who lives in Cardiff, said he had been refused entry on buses in the capital and beyond about 10 times in more than a year.', 'According to one charity for refugees and asylum seekers, it is a ""universal"" problem on public transport in Wales.', ""Cardiff Bus said Mr Gnagbo's complaints were investigated.""]"
470,"['Shukriah, a journalist, fled Afghanistan after the Taliban took power', ""A stone's throw from the US border and around the corner from Tijuana's seedy red-light district, Afghan families say they feel safe inside a first of its kind Muslim-only shelter."", 'But they are afraid to wander far outside, traumatised by their journey across 11 countries to get here.', 'Desperate to make it to the US after the Taliban takeover more than two years ago, they say they had no future in Afghanistan - their work alongside US allies made them targets.', 'So they fled, enduring months of waiting in Iran and Pakistan.', 'They flew to Brazil and then crossed the treacherous Darién Gap of Panama on foot, where they were robbed and assaulted.', 'One group of Afghans was forced to strip naked - men and women together - as masked gunmen searched them for hidden money, Shukriah says through tears.', 'A journalist, she shows photos on her phone of her nine-year-old daughter with a bruised eye. The men punched and beat her children, she says, until they got more money from the group.', '""It\'s very hard to talk about it,"" she says, as her children play nearby.', 'The Albergue Assabil/Mesquita Taybah shelter, where Shukriah now lives, is noisy and full of life. The kitchen is bustling with men cooking rice, ground beef and beans with cumin and turmeric.', 'The children play with a ball in a small courtyard but have no space to run. They have not attended school since they left Afghanistan.', 'Many migrants say they were assaulted on the treacherous journey across the Darién Gap in Panama', 'The Afghans in the shelter are desperate to restart their lives in the United States - if they can figure out how to claim asylum. Some have been waiting for more than two months for an appointment with US authorities.', 'Some migrants wonder if they should cross illegally. They have heard others pass through gaps in the border wall and get processed quickly. But most migrants want to do the right thing.', '""We were left behind,"" says Sofia, who was a student at the American University in Kabul, which was funded by the United States.', 'Sofia - like others in the shelter - does not want her real name used for fear that it will hurt her chances of entering the US or have repercussions for her family left behind in Afghanistan.', 'When Afghanistan fell to the Taliban in 2021, thousands of Afghans flooded the airport in Kabul, passing babies to the front of the line and waving paperwork to prove their work alongside the US-backed government.', 'They were desperate to catch a US evacuation flight.', 'Sofia says the US embassy offered her a flight out. But in the chaos that erupted, she could not make it through the crowds to get to the airport.', 'Listen: Why are Afghan refugees stuck on the US-Mexico border?', ""The Texas town caught in America's border battle"", ""'Too dehydrated to cry' - a lethal trek for migrants"", 'Instead, she went to Iran and then Pakistan, where, she says, US officials told her to file paperwork to emigrate.', 'After eight months, she still had not heard anything, so with a group of family and friends she flew to Brazil and began her journey across the Americas - by foot, bus, boat and taxi.', 'Sofia did not travel with Shukriah, but she was also robbed in the Darién Gap between Panama and Colombia as were other migrants we spoke to.', 'Many migrants pay smugglers to take them through Panama - it has become a booming business there. But the Afghans relied on social media instructions to cross the Darién Gap, following blue plastic signs and avoiding red signs, which indicate danger.', 'The border wall between Tijuana and San Diego is a short walk from the shelter the Afghans are staying in', 'And they just followed the crowd: thousands of people from China, India, Pakistan, Cameroon. A record number of migrants now passes through the dense stretch of jungle once considered impassable.', '""It\'s so dangerous,"" Sofia says, adding that she would never have travelled that way had she known.', 'At night, they could hear wild animals and were terrified. During the day, it poured with rain, the river would flood and they had to walk up mountains, often carrying their children and everything they own. Armed men took their money and jewellery. They feared a deadly snake bite.', 'One man traveling alongside them drowned trying to cross the river, Sofia says. ', 'She heard stories of women being raped and saw two severed hands discarded by the river and countless dead bodies along the way.', '""We used to cry. ""What happened to these people? Maybe they died because of the floods, or maybe some animals attacked them, or the gunmen shot them. No one knows.""', 'They can now see the United States when they step foot outside the shelter. They can walk a few hundred feet to touch the border wall. But even after all they have been through, they say the wait is torture.', 'To seek US asylum, migrants are expected to use a mobile app called CBP One to get an appointment with US Customs and Border Protection.', 'The app was meant to simplify the asylum process, but it has not.', 'Migrants and human rights groups say it does not work properly, leaving vulnerable people stuck for months in Mexico trying to get an appointment.', 'The Latina Muslim Foundation shelter offers halal food, separate dormitories for men and women and daily prayers', 'It could soon become even more difficult to claim asylum once migrants do get an appointment.', 'In Washington DC, some Republicans in Congress will not approve aid to Ukraine and Israel if the Biden administration does not tighten border restrictions and make it more difficult to claim asylum in the US.', 'Even the Afghans who were evacuated to the US face uncertainties. The Biden administration extended temporary visas for them earlier this year, but many remain living in limbo, uncertain about their future immigration status.', ""Ten years ago, it was rare to see migrants from Asia or Africa in Tijuana's shelters, but now the whole world comes to the border towns along the southern US."", ""That's why the Latina Muslim Foundation opened this shelter in 2022 to cater to the growing group of Muslim migrants, to provide a shelter, halal food, separate dormitories for men and women and daily prayers."", 'Sofia has been waiting two months in the shelter - trying every day to get an appointment.', '""I have no option but to wait,"" she says, adding that she has nowhere else to go and she cannot go back to Afghanistan because the Taliban know she is ""a US ally"".']"
471,"['The volunteers from Helping Our Ukrainian Friends (including Maxine Drake second from right) delivered aid to families impacted by the war', 'A five-vehicle convoy from Peterborough, which included two decommissioned ambulances, has delivered aid to families in war-torn Ukraine.', 'Volunteers from the Helping Our Ukrainian Friends group, from Peterborough and surrounding villages, sent medical supplies, warm clothing, blankets, non-perishable food and toys to Kyiv.', 'Peterborough City Hospital staff member Maxine Drake took annual leave to join the team on the 4,838 km (3,000 mile) trip.', 'She said it was a ""tough few days"".', 'On their six-day mission, the team also delivered gifts to Ukrainian refugees living in Poland; mostly women and children whose husbands and fathers have either died in the country or who remain there.', 'Ms Drake, who works as a transformation programme manager at the hospital, also volunteers for Peterborough Soup Kitchen.', '""It was a tough few days, but the camaraderie of the group was fantastic - many of us had never met before but came together to try and make a difference to the lives of those affected by the war,"" Ms Drake said.', '""I had never done anything like this before but am already looking forward to having the opportunity to do something similar next year.""']"
472,"['Plymouth has already welcomed 267 people through similar schemes since 2015', 'Plymouth has agreed to a cap of 30 refugees who will be allowed to come to the city by 2025, the city council has said.', 'The council said the cap would ensure that Plymouth remained a ""welcoming city"", while avoiding too much pressure on the local housing market. ', 'It came after the Labour-led council backed a government commitment to set a cap on the number of people arriving in the UK on safe and legal routes for humanitarian purposes.', 'The cap will be reviewed in 2024 to see if it is still appropriate.', 'The 30 asylum seekers will arrive through the UK Resettlement Scheme and the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme, which are funded by the government for the first three to five years. ', 'These schemes relocate vulnerable people who are at risk in a third country, external as asylum seekers, such as women, children, and minorities.', 'Plymouth has already welcomed 267 people through similar schemes since 2015.', 'Councillor Chris Penberthy, cabinet member for housing, co-operative development and communities, said: ""I’m very proud that yet again Plymouth will become a sanctuary for some of the world’s most vulnerable people.', '""We are a compassionate, welcoming city and decisions like this ensure that we can commit to helping people who have lost so much because of war and persecution.', '""I look forward to personally welcoming these people and supporting them to live a new life here in Plymouth.""', 'The council also announced the commissioning of a Resettlement Support Service, which will help the refugees with housing, language, employment, and community integration. ', 'It said the service would also promote community cohesion and cultural awareness in the city.']"
473,"['Yasmin Fatoum, 25, lost her daughter on the boat', ""When Yasmin Fatoum set sail to Indonesia with her two young children, she was hoping to escape squalid and violent conditions in Bangladesh's Cox's Bazar - the world's largest refugee camp, and home to about one million Rohingya Muslims."", 'But before the flimsy boat that she shared with about 250 other Rohingyas landed on the shores of Aceh province, Ms Fatoum, 25, saw her dream of a better life turn into another nightmare.', 'Angry villagers, who see the refugees as a strain on local resources, blocked the boat and pushed it back to sea twice.', 'Video footage seen by the BBC shows a local man shouting, ""You can\'t dock here! Don\'t make us hit you!"" as women and children wail in the background.', '""When I first arrived in Indonesia, I had two children. But when they pushed away our boat, one of my children died because she was sick and we didn\'t have any food. We had to throw her body into the sea,"" Ms Fatoum told the BBC, holding back tears.', 'When the boat was finally allowed to dock after days of uncertainty, its occupants wept. In relief because their voyage had ended, but also in sorrow as they had lost three other babies onboard to illness and a lack of food.', ""Ms Fatoum is among 1,087 Rohingyas who arrived in Aceh in November. Indonesia's most westerly province currently hosts about 1,200 Rohingya refugees, nearly half of whom are children, according to data from UNHCR. "", 'Rohingyas are an ethnic and unwanted minority in predominantly Buddhist Myanmar. Many of them fled to Bangladesh in 2017 to escape a campaign of what the UN has described as a possible genocide against them launched by the Burmese military.', 'Rohingya refugees return to a boat after locals turn them away.', 'Ms Fatoum and her son are now staying in an unused immigration office that has been repurposed as a temporary refugee shelter.', 'Locals remain unwelcoming. They say unmarried Rohingya men and women staying in the same camp offend their conservative Muslim beliefs. They also accuse the Rohingyas of not keeping their camps clean.', 'They add that the refugees merely use Indonesia as a mere transit stop on their way to Malaysia.', '""They are ungrateful,"" said Suryani, a 48-year-old local. ""We are kind enough to take them, but in return, they spited us and ran away (from the shelters).""', 'Dozens of Rohingya refugees were found to have paid people smugglers huge sums to take them from Bangladesh to Indonesia, and later to Malaysia - where most of them become illegal workers. ', 'On 19 November, Aceh police arrested a lorry driver for attempting to illegally transport 36 Rohingyas out of the province. The refugees had taken two boats from Bangladesh to reach Aceh and the lorry trip was part of their transit to another country, authorities say.', 'The Indonesian Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that ""the country\'s goodwill in providing shelters has been exploited by people-smuggling networks"". ', 'Aceh has seen dozens of Rohingya boat arrivals since 2015, although officials say they have noticed a surge in frequency since the 2021 military coup in Myanmar. The most recent arrivals have all been from Bangladesh.', 'Most Rohingyas attempt to sail to Indonesia between the months of October and May when the winds pick up, allowing the overcrowded boats to move faster. But it is rare to see as many arrivals as in early November. Experts predict more boats could arrive in the coming months.', ""The UN High Commission on Refugees representative in Indonesia, Ann Maymann, told the BBC deteriorating security in Cox's Bazaar is forcing more Rohingyas to escape. "", '""They are afraid. That\'s why we\'re seeing an increase,"" Ms Maymann said.', 'Appeal as refugees drift on boat without supplies', 'At least 23 dead after Rohingya boat sinks', 'Around 500 Rohingyas packed in an unused immigration building as a temporary shelter', 'Indonesia accepts Rohingyas ""solely for humanitarian reasons"" even if it is not obliged to do so, according to Lalu Muhammad Iqbal, a foreign ministry spokesman. The country is not a signatory to the UN\'s 1951 Refugee Convention.', '""These shelters are short term and not permanent solutions,"" he said, stressing the need to resolve the root of the problem in Myanmar. ', ""Aside from spiralling gang violence, Rohingyas in Cox's Bazar have had to deal with a cut in their monthly food vouchers to $8 from $12 last June. Weeks before that, powerful Cyclone Mocha destroyed many of their homes."", ""Rohima Khatoum, who arrived on the same boat as Ms Fatoum in November, recalled living amid gangs at Cox's Bazar just before she left."", '""They threatened to kill our children, rape our mothers and daughters. They took my child and asked for money. They killed one of my children and dumped his body,"" Ms Khatoum told the BBC. ', ""Ms Khatoum said the conditions in Aceh's shelters are much better than in Bangladesh. "", '""I was sure I was going to die in the sea,"" she said, recalling how Aceh locals pushed her boat back to the sea.', '""But I am here now and I feel better.""']"
474,"['Police have been searching for undocumented Afghan nationals across Pakistan', ""In the shaky mobile phone footage, women's voices can be heard panicking. The camera moves in and out of focus, positioned through a crack in a door frame. "", 'Across the yard, Pakistani police are outside a property, looking for undocumented foreigners. The officers flip through papers as several men sit expectantly inside. ', 'Then the video cuts out. ', 'Across Pakistan, unannounced arrivals of police are becoming increasingly common in a crackdown on hundreds of thousands of foreigners who do not have the right documents to stay. ', 'The vast majority affected are Afghans, who now face the threat of deportation.', 'Some 400,000 people have crossed from Pakistan to Afghanistan in the last two months', 'Many have reason to be fearful of returning to their country, after the Taliban seized power in 2021.', 'They include journalists and human rights activists, members of the LGBT community, contractors who worked for US-led forces or the Afghan military, and women and girls who can no longer receive an education in their country. ', 'But the raid in the footage the BBC was sent by the family who filmed it, was targeting an area in Pakistan known for a particular ethnic group - the Hazara. Predominantly Shia Muslims, they have long been persecuted by Sunni extremists.', 'Members of these two branches of Islam share many beliefs but differ on many other aspects of religion - and the sectarian divide has torn communities apart over the years. Out of fear of persecution in Afghanistan, external, many Hazaras decided to cross the border to Pakistan. ', '""Life under the Taliban felt like a prison, they didn\'t see us as Muslim, they called us infidels. We never felt safe with them,"" Shakeba, a 17-year-old Hazara from Afghanistan, told the BBC. She arrived in Pakistan in early 2022.  ', 'Shakeba spoke to the BBC on condition that we protect her identity', ""Shakeba has seen police raids on her neighbourhood but so far they haven't been to her house. "", ""She's terrified that she or her family will be picked up if they leave its four walls - they've been in hiding for the last three weeks."", '""Our faces look different. Even if we wear Pakistani clothes, we are easily identifiable. They identify us and shout \'Afghani, Afghani!\'."" ', ""Hazaras are of ethnically Mongolian and Central Asian descent; their features differentiate them from much of Pakistan and Afghanistan's populations."", ""Like other Afghans in this article, Shakeba's name has been changed to protect her identity."", 'Afghans make up almost all of the estimated 1.7 million foreigners that Pakistan says have no right to live in the country.', 'Its move to expel undocumented foreigners came after tensions soared following a spike in cross-border attacks. Islamabad blames them on Afghanistan-based militants, a claim the Taliban government in Kabul denies.', 'In the last two months, more than 400,000 people have crossed from Pakistan to Afghanistan. ', 'A highly uncertain future awaits them - some are staying in camps, others have set off across the country to start life again, often taking little with them as winter approaches.', 'Some Afghans are staying in tents since returning - others have gone overland to try to rebuild their lives', 'Many new arrivals from Afghanistan since 2021 have faced long delays securing any form of formal documentation in Pakistan, including those with refugee claims. This left them with two main options when the new policy was announced - leave and take their chances back home in Afghanistan or stay and risk the knock on the door from the police. ', 'Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants', 'Pakistan orders 1.7 million Afghans out of country', 'For Shakeba, there was no hesitation.', '""It wasn\'t a decision,"" she says. She and her family arrived in Pakistan after they received multiple threats to their lives, she says. ""I said to my family, we will stay here until they force us to go back. It is not a place for Hazaras, it is better to be here and pray for our luck.""', 'Fida Ali, another Hazara, said: ""Of course there is radicalism in Pakistan, but Afghanistan is on a completely different level.""', 'A former teacher, he arrived in Pakistan just over two years ago, soon after the Taliban seized power as foreign forces evacuated. ""When the internationally supported government collapsed, so did many of the institutions we were working for. The second reason for leaving is that as a minority, we were a number one target.""', 'For Hazaras, Pakistan has not always felt like the safer alternative to its neighbour, but when the Taliban retook power many joined huge numbers of Afghans who fled over the border.', 'The Hazara people traditionally live in the mountainous central belt of Afghanistan', '""Yes, Hazaras face persecution in Pakistan but many feel that they are being brought back to the slaughter house if they return to Afghanistan,"" says Jalila Haider, a lawyer and human rights activist.', 'She is a Pakistani Hazara and has been offering legal aid to many who have been arrested and threatened with deportation in the last few weeks. She explains that there is a significant lack of trust between the Hazaras and the Taliban because of recent history. ', 'Shakeba says this led to a real fear. ', '""We were scared of the Taliban, that they might kill us like they did before,"" she told the BBC. ', 'When the Taliban were last in power from 1996-2001, Hazara fighters fought against them. Hazaras were killed in their thousands by the Taliban, according to Human Rights Watch who accuse the Taliban of carrying out massacres at Mazar-i-Sharif in August 1998, Yakaolang in 2001 and Robak in May 2000, not distinguishing between combatants and civilians.', 'A Taliban spokesperson said this was not true, and that these deaths were part of armed conflict, with casualties on both sides.', 'Amnesty International says it has documented instances of torture and executions of Hazaras since the Taliban returned to power. The Taliban government denies these accusations too. Hazaras are also regularly the target of militant groups such as so-called Islamic State.', 'Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said the Pakistan policy of deporting so many Afghans in the run-up to winter is ""an attempt to put pressure on the young Islamic government in Kabul"". ', '""We welcome Afghan refugees of all ethnicities including Hazara to return to their country. And we assure them that their life, property and honour is protected and they can lead a normal life in Afghanistan,"" he told the BBC. ', 'Fida Ali says Hazaras are accused by the Taliban of supporting the US and its allies in Afghanistan', ""Pakistan's caretaker Prime Minister Anwaar-ul-Haq Kakar has promised that at-risk individuals will not be sent back.  "", '""The database of such individuals is with the Ministry of Interior,"" he told Arab News in a recent interview, external. ', 'How such individuals are identified is unclear and the ministry did not respond to a BBC request for comment. No list has been made public. Pakistan\'s Commissioner for Afghan refugees Abbas Khan has also said any suggestion Hazaras were harassed by police was ""fabricated"".', 'But Ms Haider says she has seen many people go into hiding. ', '""In towns, I have seen many of the shops and businesses run by Hazaras and other Afghans closed because they are afraid. I fear it will create another human tragedy. How will they eat?', '""There is no mercy for the Hazaras. There is a very low chance they can get jobs or opportunities in Afghanistan. They face the challenges many other Afghans face, but more intense because of their ethnic group.""', 'Under the previous Afghan government, Hazaras found new opportunities. ', 'In 2004, they were formally recognised as citizens. Many took more prominent positions in civil society, government and the military. ', '""There is no doubt that within the last two decades, the Hazara people were supportive of the process,"" Fida Ali says of the government the Taliban unseated. ', '""Now that means we are accused of supporting the allies. It is another factor that means we face extreme danger.""', ""Baqir and his family have been in Pakistan for two years - he says they can't go back"", 'All the Hazaras the BBC spoke to show the same frustration, fear and hopelessness. ', 'Baqir, who worked with the military and government in Afghanistan, is laying low with his family. They arrived in Pakistan about two years ago and he says returning would be ""like playing with my life"".', '""We can\'t go back to our own country, maybe death will be awaiting us there; and here no-one hears our voice - we are totally lost!"" ', 'With no documents, no certainty and no recognition as refugees, all say they can only wait and hope. ', '""We really don\'t know where to go or what to do,"" Shakeba says. ""We have lost everything. The dreams I have for my life are all gone."" ', 'This video can not be played', 'Watch: Bulldozers tear down Afghan houses in Islamabad']"
475,"['Volunteers in Thatcham and Newbury have been working with asylum seekers and refugees for the past two years', 'At a glance', 'A charity says more than 100 refugees and asylum seekers are being moved away from a community they have lived in for two years', 'The Home Office is ending its use of the Regency Park Hotel in Thatcham a week before Christmas', 'Volunteers supporting the residents said the decision was ""cruel and heartless""', 'Some asylum seekers are being moved to the Bibby Stockholm barge', 'The decision to move more than 100 refugees and asylum seekers out of their community the week before Christmas has been branded ""heartless"" by charity volunteers. ', 'People ordered to leave the Regency Park Hotel in Thatcham, Berkshire, by 15 December told the BBC they had spent the past two years settling into the area. ', 'Volunteers from West Berkshire Action for Refugees (WBAR) said the move was ""cruel"" and that they would be missed ""dearly"". ', 'The Home Office said it was part of its work to end the use of hotels, ""which are costing UK taxpayers £8.2m a day"".', 'Karen Reeves, lead volunteer for WBAR, said they had befriended the refugees and asylum seekers, and were able to learn their ""real story rather than the political story"".', '""They don\'t have two heads, they\'re very real people with real issues,"" she said. ', 'The hotel has become like a home for many of the asylum seekers', 'Ms Reeves said the people she worked with came to live in the hotel after fleeing places of corruption, persecution and war. ', 'Fardin, an asylum seeker from Iran, said he ""felt so alone"" when he arrived in the UK but, with the support of the volunteers, the hotel became ""like a big family"". ', 'He described Ms Reeves as ""the mother of this family"".', 'Daniel, an asylum seeker from Russia, explained that coming to the UK was ""so difficult"" as he did not know anyone or understand the culture.', 'He spent July to November feeling isolated in his hotel room.', ""But, with charity's help, he said he was able to make friends and navigate the application process for indefinite leave to remain."", 'Carmen was a doctor before she arrived in the UK', 'Carmen, a hotel resident who has recently been granted leave to remain, said she felt grateful for the ""physical and mental support"" she received since arriving in Thatcham.', 'She was a doctor in her home country but has not yet been able to convert her qualifications and so cannot practice in the UK.', '""We\'ve got teachers, a doctor, town planners"", Ms Reeves said. ', '“They’re reliable and respectful and really highly motivated to work.""', 'Charity volunteer Ian Freeland said: “A lot of people will think that they don’t bring an awful lot to the community but in fact what they’ve brought is huge.', '""We\'re going to miss them like mad.""', 'The charity set up a weekly event where residents cook each other dishes from their homelands ', 'Volunteers have helped them to find alternative work and study towards qualifications recognised in the UK.', 'Ms Reeves highlighted the importance of education and integration as ""they\'ve spent two years sitting in a hotel with nothing to do"".', 'One initiative the charity helped organise is Global Kitchen - a volunteer-run weekly social, where refugees and asylum seekers are able to cook and share dishes from their home countries.', 'With the support of the charity, residents of the hotel have been able to take food hygiene qualifications. ', '""For them, it\'s a way to share a meal with us and say thank you"", Ms Reeves said.', 'At the hotel, cooking is not permitted and meals are provided through Home Office funding. The Home office has said all asylum seekers in hotels are provided with full board accommodation.', 'Volunteers at Global Kitchen criticised the lack of cooking facilities and said they felt it was important “to share a decent meal that doesn’t come from a takeaway container with a plastic knife and fork at the hotel”.', 'Carmen said her and the others at the hotel were ""nostalgic about our home recipes.""', 'Karen Reeves (right) has supported many refugees in her area, including Fatimah, who was recently housed ', 'Many of the hotel residents have not been informed where they will go next.', '“The one thing about working with refugees and asylum seekers is that we always have to adapt,” Ms Reeves said.', '""We do think it\'s incredibly cruel - a lot of these guys have been here for nearly two years, having built up a network here where they might be able to find jobs and housing and things like that. ', '""They\'re going to be up-rooted and moved to what could be 200 miles away where they know nobody.""', 'To ease the stress of their moves, WBAR organised a suitcase appeal that received an overwhelming response from the community of almost 300 suitcases. ', ""Some of the hotel's residents have already been notified they will be moved to the Bibby Stockholm migrant accommodation barge in Dorset or to military barracks."", 'Volunteer Kate Dempsie said she felt ""dreadful"" for residents.', '“They\'re numbers to the government, to us, they\'re people,"" she added. ', ""Ending the use of hotels is seen as a key part of the government's strategy to deter migrants from arriving on Britain's shores in small boats. "", 'Ministers have said it would help cut the cost of housing asylum seekers in hotels while their claims are processed.', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: “We will work closely with accommodation providers and local authorities to manage the exit process in a way which limits the impact on partners and service users alike.”']"
476,"['Life Cycle Derby has been upcycling bikes since 2016', 'A charity in Derby has launched a fundraiser so it can upcycle 150 bicycles and donate them to refugees living in the city.', 'Life Cycle takes unwanted bikes and teaches prisoners, former offenders and volunteers in the community the skills to refurbish them.', 'The charity, which operates in Derby, said it hopes to fund the expansion of its workshop and train more volunteers.', 'An online appeal hopes to raise £50,000 to pay for the project. ', 'Staff and volunteers at the Life Cycle Derby project stop about 400 bikes from going into landfill each year, the charity said.', 'It said donating a bike can help people ""escape transport poverty"".', 'The charity wants to buy new tools and buy extra parts so it can fix more bikes', 'Kitty Rowe, who works for Life Cycle Derby, said: ""We provide affordable refurbished bikes to the public however, for refugees surviving on just £47.39 per week, even a second-hand bike is beyond their budget.', '""In times of increasing cost-of-living and deteriorating mental health, cycling can be a lifeline for refugees. ', '""With a free mode of transport, they are empowered to move around the city whenever they want, and better able to access services that teach life skills, offer advice, provide training, and job opportunities.', '""All things that help them to settle into - and feel part of - their new community.""', 'As part of the project, the charity also aims to enhance its ""bike kitchen"" where refugees can benefit from free bike repairs.', 'The British Red Cross and Derbyshire Refugee Solidarity Group will help the charity distribute bikes to refugees.', 'The appeal, which was launched on the Crowdfunder website, runs until Wednesday and hopes to raise £50,000. ']"
477,"['This video can not be played', 'The Al-Nuseirat Camp is a built-up area in central Gaza, established for Palestinian refugees after 1948. Airstrikes have destroyed buildings in the camp area, killing residents.']"
478,"['Some refugees have been waiting in Pakistan for more than a year, according to charities', ""Afghan refugees who had helped British forces are now able to live in some of Wiltshire's empty military accommodation."", 'Around 40 families will settle for three years, while dozens of others will stay a matter of weeks.', 'The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has been under pressure to review its estimated 1,350 empty homes in the county.', ""They are no longer used by service families, after the Army's basing restructure."", 'Wiltshire Council\'s leader, Richard Clewer told the BBC he was ""delighted"" that refugees from Afghanistan will be settling in some of the housing for three years.', 'The council had argued before that the MOD should open up some of its empty housing for Afghan refugees.', 'Richard Clewer said Wiltshire Council wants to do as much as it can to help Afghan refugees', 'He said he understood that around 41 families were settling into military homes spread across Wiltshire, although the exact number was yet to be finalised.', 'Meanwhile, another scheme for the temporary transition accommodation would see about 80 service homes, many across Larkhill and Shrivenham, used for new arrivals for between six to eight weeks to avoid use of hotels.', 'It comes as more Afghans are being relocated, mostly from Pakistan, where many were promised UK visas after working with or for the UK before the Taliban took over two years ago.', 'It meant those who worked with Western forces became targets and people were desperate to get onto the crowded evacuation planes.', 'Operation Pitting saw around 15,000 people evacuated from the Afghan capital Kabul', 'Two years ago, Western forces pulled out of Afghanistan after 20 years.', 'The Taliban, the extremely hard line Islamist group who had been kept at bay, rapidly took over the country and now run the government.', ""People there who'd been seen to be helping Western forces in the country, then became targets for reprisals.  "", 'For those who had helped the UK, like translators for soldiers, or teachers with the British Council, the government promised them sanctuary in the country.', ""Those who'd been able to get to the UK were put up in hotels here, but others have been stuck, only managing to get across the border to Pakistan."", 'Pakistan was threatening to deport these people back, so recently more planes have taken off to bring people to the UK. ', 'Larkhill is well-known as a military area in Wiltshire and is one of the places families will be staying', 'Mr Clewer said the council had been ""pushing really hard for [the homes] to be used in any way possible"".', '""I think there\'s been a willingness from government to say we need to sort this out. There\'s no point in having backlogs of Afghans in hotels, or stuck waiting to get to the UK when we\'ve accepted we have a responsibility,"" he added.', 'Conservative MP for Devizes Danny Kruger has also been vocal about using the empty housing.', 'He said he was ""very pleased that a number of Afghan families have been able to leave Pakistan and move into safety within my constituency"". ', 'A Ministry of Defence spokesperson said they are ""honouring our commitment to those brave Afghans that supported the UK mission"".', '""So far, we have brought around 24,600 people to safety from Afghanistan, including thousands of deserving Afghans eligible for our Afghan resettlement schemes."" ', '""To ensure families can begin a settled life in the UK as quickly as possible, the UK Government is offering transitional and settled accommodation from the Defence Estate, including at Larkhill and Shrivenham.""', 'Most support for refugees in Wiltshire will come from the MoD, with Wiltshire Council providing help with schooling, language and NHS registration.']"
479,"[""Textile paintings depict refugees' washed up personal belongings"", 'Art depicting personal possessions belonging to refugees recovered after migrant ships sunk in the Mediterranean will be put on display.', 'The paintings feature objects such as photographs and a passport retrieved from the seabed. ', 'They form part of an exhibition by artist Shezad Dawood called Leviathan at Salisbury Cathedral.', 'The artist said they are tribute to ""lives lost and those that were saved, prompting visitors to consider how we can find new reserves of empathy and think about ourselves as one humanity"".', 'This sculpture is placed within the 1215 Magna Carta exhibition space', 'The exhibition features a mix of paintings, textiles, video and sculptures, including a piece titled Where do we go now?', 'Encouraging visitors to consider the legacy of Magna Carta and the rights and freedoms of refugees, one sculpture, depicts sailors on a small boat encountering a whale, which represents the state.', 'Threatening to destroy the vessel, the whale prompts the sailors to throw a barrel overboard to distract it, representing their labour.', ""A small sculpture that references Herman Melville's Moby Dick"", 'The exhibition also features short films by Mr Dawood, which are set in the Brazilian Atlantic Forest and explore ways in which all beings and the earth are connected.', 'The exhibition invites people to explores the interaction between migration, mental health, and climate change through the films, paintings, textiles, video and sculpture. ', 'Mr Dawood said: ""We need to have empathy not just for other people living in our world but also for the vast array of animal and plant life who are victims of the way we treat our world.""', 'The exhibition will run until 3 February.', ""The work 'AnthropoPangaea' hangs in the cathedral's North Transept"", '.']"
480,"['Ms Demchenko was presented with her award by WECA mayor Dan Norris (left)', 'A Ukrainian refugee has been given an award for her translation work. ', ""Khrystyna Demchenko, 35, based in Bristol, received the Workers' Educational Association (WEA) Academic Excellence Award at an event on 22 November."", 'Ms Demchenko came to Britain on the Homes for Ukraine scheme after leaving her home in Kyiv.', 'She said: ""The right to translation should be one of the most important human rights.""', 'Ms Demchenko speaks English, German and Ukrainian fluently so she volunteered for the Respond Crisis Translation charity. ', 'She took part in a 12-week community-interpretation course with WEA before taking on her new role.', 'Since finishing the course she has been helping Ukrainian and Belarussian  refugees.', '""I learnt that I shouldn\'t summarise things, but should translate as accurately as possible - even one word can matter for a doctor or immigration officer,"" she explained.', ""The Worker's Educational Association was founded in 1903 and this year marks the 120th anniversary of the organisation."", 'She was presented the award by Mayor Dan Norris, who heads up the West of England Combined Authority (Weca).', 'He said: ""Khrystyna\'s story shines a spotlight on the valuable contribution they make each and everyday to our communities and our West of England region.""']"
481,"['Leaflets have been distributed to residents in Crediton', 'A town is looking for 10 new families to host Ukrainian refugees.', 'Crediton, in Devon, is already home to about 40 refugee families, including several from Ukraine.', 'Jennie Ford is the organiser of a conversation café in the town, which allows residents and refugees to catch-up and connect. ', 'Ms Ford and the Ukrainian refugee living at her home have created a leaflet, which has been distributed to thousands of households, in a bid to attract more hosts. ', 'Jennie Ford is the organiser of a conversation café in the town', 'Ms Ford said hosting was ""much more straightforward than it was 18 months ago when we started this journey"".', 'She said: ""We want to remind people that people [from Ukraine] are still wanting to come and we hope our leaflet will help with that."" ', 'Mr Chevalier believes the scheme is a great idea', 'Michael Chevalier, a Crediton resident, said: ""I got the leaflet through the door last Monday and within a week I\'d found someone.', '""I thought, I\'ve got a room to spare and look at the state of the world, this is something I can do literally on my doorstep.""', 'Nadiia now lives with her mother in Crediton after fleeing Ukraine', 'Nadiia and her mother left their hometown of Mariupol, Ukraine, at the beginning of April.', 'She said: ""Our home is destroyed. Our city is destroyed. Our city is dead.', '""We came here [Crediton] to start a new life ... so we will build it here.""', 'Devon County Council has a dedicated webpage, external to help support hosts and refugees.']"
482,"['Pakistan is charging an exit fee to people who arrived without a visa.', 'Pakistan has confirmed that it is charging an $830 fee to undocumented refugees who want to leave the country.', 'The exit fee applies to people who arrived without a visa.', 'In October Pakistan announced that it would deport 1.7 million undocumented foreigners from the country if they did not leave by 1 November.', 'Most are Afghans, including hundreds of thousands of people who fled Afghanistan when the Taliban retook power in 2021.', 'Those who have expired visas will be charged depending on how long they have overstayed. ', 'An exit fee does not apply to anyone travelling back to Afghanistan.', 'Many Afghans who arrived in Pakistan when Kabul fell to the Taliban have faced delays getting documentation, according to groups like Amnesty International.', 'Pakistan is not a party to the Refugee Convention and has said it does not recognise any of the Afghans living in its borders as refugees. ', 'A senior diplomat in Pakistan told the BBC that the fee was particularly worrying when it was being applied to people who were being relocated on humanitarian grounds. ', '""In many countries, if you overstay your visa you have to pay or you get booted out,"" they said. ', '""The problem is charging those we are taking on humanitarian visas. Not necessarily the people we are taking because they worked for us, but who UNHCR sees as having a humanitarian need. It sets a very bad precedent."" ', ""The diplomat said that there had been some early indication that the government could be reviewing the policy, which they said they're encouraging. "", 'The Pakistan authorities did not discuss the possibility of a review with the BBC.  ', 'The UNHCR told the BBC it is trying to ""resolve the issue"". ', '""We are advocating for the authorities to exempt refugees from these requirements. ', '""The Government and people of Pakistan have a commendable, decades-long history of providing asylum and protection to Afghan refugees, this needs to continue.""', 'A spokesperson for the country\'s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said ""Pakistani laws, like the immigration laws in other countries including the United Kingdom, have fines and punishments for individuals who overstay their visas or are in violation of immigration laws. ', '""Any fines that Pakistan has imposed or will impose are in conformity with our laws.""']"
483,"['Unite Through Football: Refugees project relaunched for a second successive season on Monday', 'At a glance', 'A project to help refugees play football has been relaunched by the Surrey FA', 'More than 200 players from 35 different countries took part in last year’s inaugural scheme', 'Unite Through Football: Refugees enables men and women across the South East to play football', 'A project to help enable refugees play football has been relaunched by the Surrey Football Association. ', 'The project, titled Unite Through Football: Refugees, provides an opportunity for men and women across the south-east of England to play football and connect with local communities.', 'More than 200 players from 35 different countries took part in last year’s inaugural scheme. ', 'Surrey FA chief executive, Sally Lockyer, said the project boosted the refugees’ physical and mental health.', 'The league format of the project sees monthly fixtures being played, and provides kits, boots and prayer facilities to players. ', 'At a launch event at Meadowbank Football Ground in Dorking, Ms Lockyer said: ""We’ve seen a growing population of refugees within the South East, and we want to create opportunities for them to play football, boost their mental health and connect with the local community.', '“Not only does the project help them to build positive relationships within their local community, but it also provides structure, support and social opportunities, which are hugely important for people who have been displaced, often in very traumatic circumstances.""', 'The scheme was first launched in September last year in collaboration with accommodation provider SBHL and Surrey Police. ', 'Anwar Uddin MBE, diversity and inclusion manager at the FA and former professional footballer, said: ""It’s wonderful to witness the sustained success of the project, enabling it to offer football opportunities to the refugee community for a second consecutive season.', '“These sessions play a crucial role in fostering integration between the participants and the wider community, while providing activities that positively impact their mental and physical wellbeing.""']"
484,"['Thousands of those displaced from the north have been packed into schools like this one in Deir al-Balah', 'Washing in polluted seawater, sleeping in packed tents, eating what little bread they can find, or on some days none at all. In southern Gaza, hundreds of thousands of refugees are in the midst of a humanitarian crisis that is deepening by the hour and pushing every possible safety net to the brink.', ""The refugees are coming from Gaza's north, fleeing Israel's bombing campaign. They stream down the Salah al-Din road, which connects north to south, many thousands on foot, some with a few possessions but most bearing only their children and the clothes on their backs."", 'A young girl holds an improvised white flag as her family, heading south, stops to rest on the Salah al-Din road', 'Tens of thousands have stopped in Deir al-Balah, a central Gazan city in the supposed safe zone which has been plunged into crisis by the influx. The refugees in Deir al-Balah are crammed into school buildings hastily repurposed as UN shelters, up to 70 people in a single classroom, surrounded by food waste and swarmed by flies.', '""If you want to speak about space, we sleep on our sides because there is not even enough room to lie on our backs,"" said Hassan Abu Rashed, a 29-year-old blacksmith who fled with his family from Jabalia in Gaza City.', '""If you want to speak about food, we hope we will find a few slices of bread per day to eat. If you want to speak about health, the sewage system in the school is broken. If you want to speak about diseases, there is chickenpox, scabies, and lice here. If you want to speak about our condition, we are desperate.""', 'Hundreds of thousands have streamed down the Salah al-Did road on foot, fleeing the bombing further north', 'At the gate of one school in Deir al-Balah, Khaled Filfel, a 42-year-old father, was alone and stressed over a very specific need. ""My 21-year-old daughter is disabled and I cannot get any nappies for her,"" he said. On top of that, he said, the pair had not been able to find drinking water or food so far that day.', 'There were two saving graces for Filfel, though. The first was that his wife and six other children happened to be out of Gaza when Hamas attacked Israel. The second was that someone had seen his daughter at the school that morning and offered them a room in a family home nearby. ""Because of my daughter\'s condition they offered us shelter,"" Filfel said. ""Some people here are looking out for each other.""', ""Before the beginning of this war, the UN's refugee agency, Unwra, had contingency planning in place to house 1,500 displaced people in each school, the agency's Gaza director, Thomas White, told the BBC. The average school-turned-shelter is now housing 6,000 people - a total of 670,000 people across 94 shelters in the south."", 'With no room left inside, many refugees are living in makeshift lean-tos', '""We have been overwhelmed by the numbers,"" White said. ""There are people everywhere. The sanitation is overwhelmed, we\'re averaging about 125 people per toilet, about 700 per shower unit. You can feel the humidity of so many people crammed into these schools, you can smell the mass of humanity.""', 'To escape the teeming classrooms and courtyards at the school in Deir al-Balah, some of its new residents take the short walk down to the beach front and spend the daylight hours there. ', 'On Saturday morning, a young family was washing themselves and their clothes in the sea, trying to avoid the rubbish floating on the water and strewn on the sand. When they were done, they hung their clothes up under the sun. They had been in Deir al-Balah for three weeks. ', '""You could say that we have gone back to the dark ages,"" said the father, Mahmoud al-Motawag, 30. ""We use the sea for everything,"" he said. ""To wash ourselves, to wash our clothes, to clean our kitchen utensils, and now to drink when we cannot find clean water. We eat just one meal each per day, and we beg the fishermen to give us one or two fishes for the children.""', 'Mahmoud al-Motawag and his wife Duaa and their children, waiting for their clothes to dry on the beach in Deir al-Balah', 'Mahmoud, a farm worker from Jabalia, said his family had fled the bombing. He was sitting next to his two children, a boy and girl aged four and two, and his wife Duaa. The family spent all day at the beach, Mahmoud said, partly to wait for their clothes to dry but mostly to avoid for as long as they could returning to the baking hot tent on the school grounds that had become their temporary home along with 50 others.', 'As he spoke, Duaa, aged just 20, rested a hand on her large baby bump. She was due to give birth in a month, she said. With the local hospital already on its knees, she wondered if she might be forced to deliver at the dirty, overcrowded school. ', '""I am afraid,"" Duaa said. ""I am afraid that the birth will take a long time, I am afraid for my baby, I am afraid that there will be no clothes or blankets. Everything was planned for the birth, and then everything changed.""', 'Duaa Filfel, who is eight months pregnant, with her son. ""I am afraid for my baby,"" she said', 'For now, there was the daily strain of simply being a refugee while eight months pregnant. ""I have this physical and mental fatigue,"" Duaa said. ""My children are small and we have to stand in a queue for the toilets for 15 to 30 minutes. I have pain from washing and sitting for a long time by the sea. It doesn\'t go away.""', 'Even if Duaa could reach the hospital in Deir al-Balah, it would not be a guarantee of a safe and comfortable birth. The Al-Aqsa hospital, like others across the Gaza Strip, is on its knees. As the refugees move south, so has the Israeli bombing, levelling buildings in residential areas of Deir al-Balah and sending dozens of badly wounded there.', 'Follow live: Latest updates', ""From Gaza: G'Most of the children in my family photo are dead'"", 'From Israel: How much closer is Israel to its goal in Gaza?', 'Explained: The faces of hostages taken from Israel', 'History behind the story: The Israel-Palestinian conflict', 'Khalil al-Duqran, a 55-year-old emergency doctor who has worked at the Al-Aqsa for 20 years, was on the phone to the BBC when the wounded from a strike on Salah al-Din road started to arrive. ', '""They are coming now, hundreds of injured people, dozens have injuries in the head and limbs,"" he shouted, over sounds of chaos in the background. ""This is a massacre of our people.""', 'Dr Khalil al-Duqran attends to a boy with two badly wounded arms at Al-Aqsa hospital on Saturday', 'Al-Duqran apologised and hung up. Later, when the chaos had died down, he called back, sounding shattered. ""This is the hardest war that I have seen in my 20 years,"" he said. ""Every day the wounded and the dead arrive by the dozens or hundreds. Children come with amputated limbs, upper and lower. They have severe head wounds.""', 'Like other hospitals across Gaza, the Al-Aqsa was running low on almost everything it needed to function. ""We are making beds from wooden pallets, we are missing nearly 90% of medicines,"" Al-Duqran said. ""Everything from operation room trays to fraction fixing devices have run out, and in the ICU we will lose patients soon because we can simply no longer keep them alive.""', 'A mother fleeing with her child on the Salah al-Din road, which was bombed on Friday', ""As Israel's air and land attack on northern Gaza intensifies, people continue to flow down the Salah al-Din road into Deir al-Balah and all cities of central and southern Gaza. "", 'But at many of the school shelters, there is no longer room. So refugees are building ramshackle lean-tos against the sides of the buildings, keen to be positioned as close as possible to a UN flag in the hope of protection from an air strike, but open to the elements as the weather worsens.', '""People are living increasingly out in the open,"" said Thomas White, the Unrwa Gaza director. ""Right now its remarkably warm for November, but by Wednesday we are expecting the cold weather to come through,"" he said. ""People are going to be seriously exposed.""', 'A young boy stares out from a shelter in a school in Khan Younis, southern Gaza', 'Every shop that was providing food to Gazans under a World Food Programme assistance scheme ran out of basic supplies on Friday, WFP spokeswoman Alia Zaki told the BBC. Bakeries have no gas to make bread, she said, and there was a potential wave of malnutrition in the making in Deir al-Balah and across Gaza.', '""People are not eating enough to be healthy so their immune systems are weakened,"" Zaki said. ""They are queuing for five or six hours for bread and coming back empty handed.""', 'At the beach in Deir al-Balah on Saturday, this was the unwelcome prospect facing Mahmoud and Duaa. They were preparing mentally to leave the relative haven of the waterfront to go in search of bread.', '""We could be waiting many hours, only to find the bakeries are closed again and we will have nothing again for our children,"" Mahmoud said.', '""Our ancestors\' lives were war and our lives have been war,"" he said, wearily. ""And now the war has caught up with our children, too.""', 'Muath al-Khatib contributed to this report.']"
485,"['A Home Office spokesperson said ""accommodation is allocated on a no-choice basis""', 'At a glance', 'An appeal has been launched for empty suitcases to be donated following the closure of a refugee hotel', 'West Berkshire Action for Refugees is requesting suitcase donations in the Thatcham area for more than 100 refugees', 'The refugees have to move out of Regency Park Hotel by 15 December, with a minimum of five days notice', 'It is hoped the appeal will allow them to ""move with dignity""', 'A volunteer group is asking for suitcases to be donated to refugees after it was announced they would have to leave the hotel they have been staying in.', 'West Berkshire Action for Refugees has launched a suitcase appeal in Thatcham, requesting empty bags and holdalls for more than 100 refugees and asylum seekers who will have to move out of Regency Park Hotel by 15 December.', 'It is unknown where the current hotel residents will be rehoused, and the Home Office said they would be notified a minimum of five days in advance of any move.', 'Karen Reeves, lead volunteer for West Berkshire Action for Refugees, hopes that the appeal will allow the refugees to ""move with dignity"".', 'Karen Reeves (right) has supported many refugees in her area, including Fatimah (left) who was recently housed', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: “The Home Office continues to provide safe accommodation for asylum seekers who would otherwise be destitute, as we work to end the use of hotels which are costing UK taxpayers £8.2m a day.""', 'The suitcase appeal will run until the hotel is closed, just before Christmas.', 'Ms Reeves described the unexpected closure as ""cruel"", ""inhumane"" and ""not the way to treat human beings"".', 'She explained that most of the refugees arrived without luggage, so the appeal should prevent them from having to leave with their belongings in black bin bags. ', 'Refugees in Thatcham have received donations from the community over the past 18 months, including bicycles, which Ms Reeves described as ""their most precious belonging"".', 'She added they would have to leave them behind ""as they can only take a maximum of two suitcases"".', 'The Home Office said the luggage allowance was ""on top of essential items"", including children’s toys, baby care items, medical equipment, buggies or prams and disability aids.', 'Suitcase donations can be dropped off at Thatcham Town Council offices.', 'Any unused suitcases will be donated to other refugee centres in need.']"
486,"['This video can not be played', ""The BBC's Rushdi Abualouf on the scene of the damage at the al-Maghazi refugee camp"", 'The Hamas-run health ministry says at least 45 people have been killed in what it said was an Israeli air strike at the Al-Maghazi refugee camp.', ""Israel's military says it is looking into whether it was operating in the area at the time."", 'The small camp has been experiencing overcrowding because of people fleeing bombardments further north.  ', 'Efforts are under way to find those still missing. It is thought more than 100 people were there at the time.', ""The head of Gaza's Al-Aqsa hospital said 52 people were killed in the blast on Saturday night, slightly more than the number given by the health ministry. "", 'Residents have been trying to dig with their hands through layers of cement in an attempt to extract those trapped under the rubble.', 'Photojournalist Muhammad Al-Alul lost his wife and four of his five children. He had been reporting elsewhere when the blast happened. ', '""It did not occur to me that my children might be buried under the rubble,"" he told the BBC. ', '""I wish I had been with them and been killed with them.""', ""The BBC has asked Israel's military to comment on the incident. While there has been no official response yet, an Israel Defense Forces (IDF) spokesman told the BBC he was unable to confirm whether the camp was hit by an Israeli air strike. "", 'Speaking to BBC World Service\'s Newshour, Lt Col Peter Lerner added that any strikes taking place in southern Gaza were ""specific intelligence-based strikes, specifically against terrorist elements"".', 'Mr Lerner said that this did not mean that ""there can\'t unfortunately be deaths"".', 'Follow live: Latest updates', ""Analysis: Jeremy Bowen's five new realities after four weeks of war"", 'From Gaza: Stories of those killed in Gaza', ""Watch: Breaking down videos from Gaza's secret tunnels"", 'Explained: Ros Atkins on... Calls for a ceasefire in Gaza', 'History behind the story: The Israel-Palestinian conflict', 'The Al-Maghazi camp is in the area where Israel advised people in the north of Gaza to evacuate to for safety as they continue their campaign to destroy Hamas in retaliation for its 7 October attacks on Israel. ', 'However, air strikes in the south have not stopped.', '""There is no safe place in Gaza,"" Muhammad, a civil defence officer who rushed to the scene of Saturday\'s strike to help, told the BBC. ', '""They ask the Palestinians to go to the south, but kill them everywhere - on the roads, in schools where people are sheltering, and even in hospitals.""', 'The death toll in Gaza since 7 October is now more than 9,700, according to the Hamas-run health ministry.', 'More than 1,400 people were killed in the attacks by Hamas on Israel and more than 200 people were taken hostage.']"
487,"['This video can not be played', 'The Hamas-run health ministry in Gaza says more than 30 people have been killed in an Israeli air strike on the al-Maghazi refugee camp, which is in the part of the Gaza Strip civilians have been told to evacuate to.', 'The Israeli military says it is looking into whether it was operating in the area at the time. ', ""As the BBC's Rushdi Abualouf reports, people are searching through rubble of destroyed buildings.""]"
488,"['This video can not be played', 'Watch: Bulldozers tear down Afghan houses in Islamabad', 'Pakistan has started to arrest Afghans as the country begins a nationwide crackdown on foreign nationals it says are in the country illegally. ', 'Thousands of Afghans in Pakistan have made their way back to Afghanistan in the last two months. But many of them, who have called Pakistan home for decades, say they have nothing to go back to, while others say they are terrified to be heading back to the Taliban government. ', 'You know you are getting closer to the border when the stream of trucks thickens. Faces old and young watch the road, sitting atop piles of furniture, firewood, cookers and air conditioning units that judder precariously as the vehicles weave through traffic on their way to Afghanistan. ', 'We meet Abdullah at a petrol station in Punjab province. He has hired a truck to bring all 22 of his family members out of the country - 20 of them were born in Pakistan, he says.', '""I initially came here when the Russian war started,  I used to work in a brick kiln as a labourer. There are fewer job opportunities in Afghanistan,"" he tells the BBC. ', '""I am very sad about leaving my house. I can\'t express in words the pain I felt leaving it. Our house was made of mud, and we built it ourselves. I planted many trees there. My neighbours and friends were in tears [when I left] - It\'s the cruel government that is making us leave.""', 'Abdullah, who had a house in Punjab, left together with 22 family members', 'In the last two months around 200,000 Afghan nationals have already left Pakistan ahead of the 1 November deadline, according to the Pakistan government. The recent daily returnee figures are three times higher than normal, says the Taliban refugee ministry spokesman Abdul Mutaleb Haqqani.', 'The government says the first wave of deportations will target those without any documentation - adding that the policy is only aimed at those that are in the country illegally. UNHCR, the United Nations refugee agency, has also reassured that the government will not take action against those with refugee cards.', ""But Abdullah says he has been targeted despite having an Afghan Citizen Card - an ID issued by the Pakistan government. He brandishes a plastic wallet and shows the cards for his entire family. According to the government's own website, this counts as an official document. "", 'He says that despite this, the police raided his house and arrested his sons. The BBC could not independently verify this. ', '""The government says to go back, even though we have these cards. This level of problem has never happened in the past,"" Abdullah tells us. ', ""We climb into the truck -  sitting on top of tarpaulin bags of belongings are Abdullah's children, grandchildren and his wife. She didn't tell us her name, but can't stop crying. "", '""We have nothing,"" she says in tears.. ""We didn\'t do anything wrong; we used to work as labour and feed the family.""', ""Pakistan is home to over four million Afghan migrants and refugees, about 1.7 million of whom are undocumented, according to authorities. As Afghanistan's neighbour, Pakistan has seen people travel across the border for safety for four decades, from the 1979 Soviet invasion through to the more recent return of the Taliban in 2021. "", 'Human rights groups have criticised the deportation policy, including Amnesty international which pointed out that because of considerable delays in the registration process, many new arrivals in Pakistan have not been able to obtain recognised identity documents. ', 'Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants', 'Pakistan orders 1.7 million Afghans out of country', 'It called on the government to reverse its decision, saying that women and girls in particular would be put in ""grave danger"" if they returned.', 'The UNHCR is also concerned that certain groups of people, including minorities, journalists and women, could be at risk. They say they have received assurances from government officials that these groups will not be forced to return. ', 'The organisation has issued slips to those that have approached them for help, in hopes the government will acknowledge them. Some we meet show us their printed slips hopefully, but for now these are not officially recognised by Pakistani authorities. ', ""Despite the criticism, Pakistan's government has forged ahead. Last week its interior minister announced plans to open centres around the country to help process detainees before deportation, saying that the elderly, children and women would be treated with extra care.  "", 'The Pakistan government has promised to take special care of Afghan children being deported', 'When challenged, the government has pointed out that it is within its rights to follow its own laws. Furthermore its ""record of the last forty years in hosting millions of our Afghan brothers and sisters speaks for itself"", according to a foreign ministry spokeswoman. ', 'The Taliban government has urged Pakistan to rethink its ""unacceptable"" move. The Afghan Ministry of Refugees intends to register returnees and house them in temporary camps, while the Taliban administration will try and find returnees jobs.', 'But there are worries about how thousands of deportees will impact the economy of a country that is already struggling. ', 'Afghanistan was pushed into economic collapse when the Taliban took over in 2021, and foreign funds that were being given to the previous regime were frozen. The unemployment rate more than doubled from the period immediately before the Taliban takeover to June 2023, according to the World Bank. ', 'UN agencies say around two-thirds of the population is in need of humanitarian aid.', '""We\'ve just had the earthquake which is impacting heavily on the situation in Afghanistan, and on top of that, winter is approaching so it\'s not the best season to have people going back to a country that is already in a very fragile situation,"" says Philippa Candler, UNHCR representative in Pakistan. ', '""We certainly don\'t want to see a worsening of the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan as a result of large numbers of people being forced to return.""', 'The Taliban government announced an amnesty on those who worked for international forces, but there is still a strong sense of fear about what deportation could mean for many we spoke to. ', 'Earlier this year, a UN report said hundreds of former government officials and armed force members were allegedly killed despite assurances from the Taliban of an amnesty.  ', 'One woman who was an activist told us in phone messages that she had tried to hide after finding out that the Pakistan police had their details. She said some of her friends had tried to move to villages to give themselves some time. ', 'Afghan refugees in Pakistan have been streaming across the border into Afghanistan.', 'Another Afghan national -Rehman* - tells us he was part of theAfghan forces and left the country after he says he was beaten by members of the Taliban when they came to power. ', '""If I go back to Afghanistan, we face death,"" he says. ""Our lives are in danger. We are living here with one hope, that UNHCR might find a way.""', ""As we sit, Rehman's little son curls up in his lap, flicking through his father's phone and occasionally looking up. His daughter watches carefully from the side. "", '""I am worried about the future of my children. There is no way for my daughter to study because we don\'t have legal documents,"" he says. ', '""We are here without any destiny and unknown future.""', 'All photographs by Usman Zahid, BBC News', '*Names have been changed']"
489,"['Refugees arrive in trucks at the Pakistan-Afghanistan border', 'Thousands of Afghans living in Pakistan have raced to the border to beat a Wednesday deadline for undocumented foreigners to leave the country.', 'Pakistan says 1.7 million such people must leave by 1 November or face arrest and deportation. Most are Afghans.', 'Many refugees are terrified, having fled Afghanistan after the Taliban retook control in 2021. Others have been in Pakistan for decades.', 'The deadline to leave technically expired at midnight on Tuesday. ', 'However Pakistani media report that those who are in transit to leave the country, external will be allowed to continue their journeys throughout the day. ', '""Where will we go if we are forced to leave Pakistan?"" asked one young woman. ', 'Sadia, who has been studying in Peshawar in north-west Pakistan, said she escaped Afghanistan two years ago for a chance at getting an education, after the Taliban government barred girls and women from school under its harsh version of Islamic law.', '""I am studying here in Pakistan and I wish to continue my education here. If we are forced to leave, I will not be able to continue my study in Afghanistan. My parents, my sister and brother are scared about the future,"" she told BBC Urdu.', 'Tensions between the countries soared after a spike in cross-border attacks, which Islamabad blames on Afghanistan-based militants.', 'Afghanistan\'s Taliban government, who deny providing sanctuary for militants targeting Pakistan, have called the move to deport undocumented Afghans ""unacceptable"".', 'Throngs of refugees rushed to the border with Afghanistan on Tuesday -  the last day for them to leave or be deported - on trucks overflowing with clothes and furniture.', 'Close to 200,000 Afghans have returned home as of Monday, Pakistan said. Reports said 20,000 journeyed to the border on Tuesday as time to leave ran out.', 'Eight in 10 who left said they feared being arrested if they stayed, external, according to a UN report.', 'Many of these refugees, who fled Afghanistan after the Taliban retook control of the government, fear that their dreams and livelihoods will be crushed - yet again.', 'But Pakistan, which has been wrestling with an economic crisis in recent years, is short of patience. In July, the Pakistani rupee saw its sharpest drop against the dollar since October 1998.', 'Afghans in UK visa limbo as Pakistan vows to expel migrants', 'What rise of Taliban means for Pakistan', ""Key moments in the crushing of Afghan women's rights"", 'The UN\'s human rights office urged Pakistani authorities to stop deportations to avoid a ""human rights catastrophe"". ', '""We believe many of those facing deportation will be at grave risk of human rights violations if returned to Afghanistan, including arbitrary arrest and detention, torture, cruel and other inhuman treatment,"" said Ravina Shamdasani, spokeswoman of the UN\'s human rights office.', ""The Taliban government have all but broken their earlier promises to give women the right to work and study - the suppression of women's rights under their rule is the harshest in the world,"", 'Girls in Afghanistan are only allowed to attend primary school. They are not allowed in parks, gyms and pools. Beauty salons have been shut and women are required to be dressed in head-to-toe clothing.', 'Pakistan said unauthorised refugees will be deported if they do not leave the country before 1 Nov', 'Earlier this year, the Taliban government also burned musical instruments, claiming music ""causes moral corruption"".', 'Afghan singer Sohail said he fled the Afghan capital Kabul ""with only some clothes"" the night the Taliban seized control of the city in August 2021.', '""I cannot live as a musician in Afghanistan,"" said Mr Sohail, whose family of musicians have been trying to make ends meet in Peshawar.', '""We are facing a critical time, as we have no other options, the Taliban do not accept music in Afghanistan and we have no other options for livelihoods,"" he said.', 'The Taliban government says it has set up a commission to provide basic services, including temporary accommodation and health services, to returning Afghans.', '""We assure them that they will return to their country without any worries and adopt a dignified life,"" Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said on X, formerly known as Twitter.', 'Pakistan has taken in hundreds of thousands of Afghan refugees over decades of war. About 1.3 million Afghans are registered as refugees while another 880,000 have received the legal status to remain, according to the UN.', 'But another 1.7 million people are in the country ""illegally"", Pakistan\'s Interior Minister Sarfraz Bugti said on 3 October, when he announced the expulsion order.', ""The UN's figures differ - it estimates that there are more than two million undocumented Afghans living in Pakistan, at least 600,000 of whom arrived after the Taliban returned to power."", 'People protest the deportation of Afghans from Pakistan', ""Mr Bugti's order came after a spike in violence near Pakistan's border with Afghanistan, often involving armed fighters including the Tehrik-e Taliban Pakistan (TTP) - often known as the Pakistani Taliban - and the Islamic State militant group."", 'The minister claimed ""14 out of 24"" suicide bombings in Pakistan this year were carried out by Afghan nationals.', '""There are no two opinions that we are attacked from within Afghanistan and Afghan nationals are involved in attacks on us... We have evidence,"" he said according to state media reports.', 'Unauthorised refugees will be deported if they do not leave, Mr Bugti said on Monday. He stressed the crackdown was not aimed at specific nationalities, but acknowledged that those affected are mainly Afghans.', 'Earlier in September, Pakistan was hit by two suicide bombings which killed at least 57 people. No group claimed responsibility for the attack, with the TTP denying involvement - though Mr Bugti said one of the suicide bombers had been identified as an Afghan national. ']"
490,"['This video can not be played', 'Explosion at Gaza refugee camp leaves massive crater', 'An Israeli air strike is reported to have killed dozens of people at Jabalia refugee camp in northern Gaza. ', ""Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry said 50 people were killed and 150 wounded. But a nearby hospital said it received 400 casualties, including 120 dead."", 'Pictures showed several large craters, surrounded by shattered buildings.', 'The Israeli military said the strike killed a senior Hamas commander and ""underground terror infrastructure"" beneath buildings collapsed afterwards.', 'It added that a ""large number of terrorists"" from Hamas\'s Central Jabalia Battalion who had been with the commander at the time were also killed.', ""Israeli tanks and troops, meanwhile, continued to advance towards some of northern Gaza's most populated areas, including Jabalia. "", 'Israel has said it is the ""second phase"" of its war to eliminate Hamas, which began after an unprecedented cross-border attack by gunmen from Gaza on 7 October in which 1,400 people were killed and another 240 taken hostage. ', ""Gaza's health ministry says more than 8,500 people have been killed in the territory since then, while supplies of food, water, fuel and medicine for its 2.2 million residents are dangerously low because of a siege imposed by Israel.  "", 'Hundreds of people were seen searching the wreckage for the dead and injured', ""Tuesday's air strike in Jabalia caused a huge explosion that destroyed several residential buildings in the centre of the refugee camp, where before the war 116,000 people were living in an area of just 1.4 sq km (0.5 sq miles)."", 'Jabalia resident Ragheb Aqal said it had felt like there was ""an earthquake"". ', '""I went and saw the destruction... homes buried under the rubble and body parts and martyrs and wounded in huge numbers,"" he told AFP news agency.', 'Video footage and photos showed hundreds of people searching the wreckage afterwards. ""We\'re filling bags with children,"" cried one man, holding up a small white cloth bag covered in blood.', 'AFP reported that its video footage from the scene showed at least 47 bodies being pulled from the rubble.', ""A long line of body bags were laid outside the Indonesian Hospital, in nearby Beit Lahia. Its surgical director told the BBC's International editor Jeremy Bowen that it received 400 casualties, including 120 dead, and that the majority were children and women."", 'Dr Mohamed el-Ron also said there were severely wounded people needing complex surgery who had to be transferred ""under fire"" to Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City.', 'Médecins Sans Frontières quoted one of its nurses at Al-Shifa, Mohammed Hawajreh, as saying: ""Young children arrived at the hospital with deep wounds and severe burns. They came without their families. Many were screaming and asking for their parents.""', 'Later, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said it had a carried out a ""wide-scale strike on terrorists and terror infrastructure belonging to the Central Jabaliya Battalion"" and killed its commander, Ibrahim Biari.', '""The strike damaged Hamas\'s command and control in the area, as well as its ability to direct military activity against IDF soldiers operating throughout the Gaza Strip,"" it added.', '""A large number of terrorists who were with Biari were killed. Underground terror infrastructure embedded beneath the buildings, used by the terrorists, also collapsed after the strike.""', 'IDF spokesman Rear Adm Daniel Hagari did not directly address the reported civilian casualties at a briefing, but he said: ""The Hamas terrorists continue to use civilian population as protective armour. This is intentional and devastatingly barbaric.""', 'A Hamas spokesman was quoted by Al Arabiya TV as denying that a commander had been in Jabalia, accusing the IDF of ""false and unfounded talk"" intended to ""justify its heinous crime"".', 'The IDF also said that its ground forces had killed about 50 Hamas fighters during an operation to secure a military stronghold in western Jabalia that served as a training centre for the 7 October attack and contained tunnels used as a passageway to the Mediterranean coast.', 'Two Israeli soldiers were killed during the battle, according to Adm Hagari.', ""Hamas's military wing said its fighters had hit four Israeli military vehicles within southern Gaza, fired at tanks and bulldozers in north-west Gaza, and ambushed an Israeli unit in the north-east."", 'Hamas and other Palestinian groups also continued to fire rockets into Israel. Four people in the coastal city of Ashdod were wounded in two attacks.', 'Four people in the Israeli coastal city of Ashdod were wounded by Palestinian rocket fire', ""Following Tuesday's strike in Jabalia, Adm Hagari once again called on all civilians in the camp and elsewhere in northern Gaza to move to areas south of the Wadi Gaza river for their own safety."", 'Hundreds of thousands of people have not heeded the order, which the IDF first issued on 13 October.', 'The UN says about 117,000 displaced civilians are staying in 13 hospitals across the north, along with thousands of patients and medical staff. Many others are sheltering in UN facilities, schools and other public buildings.', 'On Tuesday, the World Health Organization said it was extremely concerned by reports of air strikes in the vicinity of the Turkish-Palestinian Friendship Hospital over the last two days. The hospital, which is located south of Gaza City, is the main cancer centre in the Gaza Strip.', 'The BBC verified a video circulated on social media on Monday in which smoke can be seen outside the hospital and an explosion can be heard. ', 'The Israeli military told the BBC that it had not stuck the hospital, but it did not deny that there may have been strikes in the area.', 'Follow live: Latest updates', 'Interview: Israel president says military trying to avoid civilian deaths', ""Reporting on Gaza: 'Sometimes from behind the camera I just stand and cry'"", 'Explained: What is happening in Israel and Gaza, and why now?', 'Dr Richard Brennan, the WHO\'s regional emergency director, also warned that the wider health situation in Gaza was ""essentially catastrophic"", with 8,525 deaths from trauma reported by the health ministry, over a third of hospitals not functioning, and the rest overwhelmed by patients.', '""Anaesthetics and painkillers are running short, so doctors are doing procedures without the right medicine and equipment, and patients are suffering incredible because of that,"" he told the BBC.', 'Dr Brennan also said the UN had already started to see infectious diseases such as diarrhoea and respiratory infections among the 1.4 million displaced people living in overcrowded and unsanitary conditions.', ""The US said on Monday night that it was confident there would be an increase in humanitarian aid entering southern Gaza via Egypt's Rafah border crossing in the coming days. "", 'In recent days, there has been a small rise in the deliveries of food, water and medicine being allowed in, but UN agencies said the promised 100 lorryloads a day were a fraction of what was needed. ', 'Israel is not permitting deliveries of fuel - crucial to run hospitals and bakeries, and for purifying and pumping water - because it says it could be used by Hamas for military purposes.', ""The BBC's Rushdi Abualouf said he saw hundreds of people queuing for a small bottle of clean drinking water from a UN tanker outside a hospital in the southern city of Khan Younis on Tuesday. "", 'A father who had to queue for six hours to get five Arabic flatbreads to feed his family told him: ""This is not enough."" ']"
491,"['Susanne Millar said the current housing plans for refugees were not sustainable', ""Glasgow is facing a refugee housing emergency unless it is given financial aid by the UK government, according to the council's homelessness services."", 'The city expects to see more than 1,400 homelessness applications from people granted asylum before the end of 2023.', 'The UK government said it offered ""ample support"" to refugees granted leave to remain.', 'Over October, November and December 2022, the council processed around 1,500 homelessness applications.', 'This number is expected to rise this year and, with the additional 1,400 applications from people granted asylum, the overall number of homelessness applications will nearly double.', 'The Scottish government has written to the Home Office calling for ""urgent provision of funding to local authorities"" to deal with the surge in applications.', 'Asylum hotel closures may shift cost to councils', 'Homelessness warning over asylum seeker claims', 'Is the asylum backlog going down and other claims checked', 'In a bid to cut the lengthy backlog of asylum claims, the UK government announced plans this year to streamline the application process for claimants from Afghanistan, Eritrea, Libya, Syria and Yemen. ', 'Some claimants from Sudan are also being considered under the new process.', 'Glasgow is the main dispersal city in Scotland for successful asylum seekers.', 'Susanne Millar, chief officer of the city\'s health and social care partnership (HSCP) which runs homelessness services, says additional costs of £26m in two months is ""one of the biggest challenges ever faced"" by the local authority.', 'Glasgow HSCP estimates 2,500 applications will be considered before the end of December. ', 'Of those, around 1,400 successful claims are expected to lead to homelessness claims after being asked to leave Home Office accommodation.', 'Ms Millar said the plans were not ""financially sustainable"" and called on more funding from the Home Office.', 'She said: ""We appreciate the Home Office is looking to save money, but that cannot be at the cost of local government. ', '""For us here in the city, if the Home Office delivers on the numbers that they\'ve set out, then this would be an emergency for us.""', 'Council homelessness services said the additional cost of housing refugees under the streamlined process could reach £79m by March 2025.', ""Glasgow's temporary housing stock currently has a shortfall of around 1,600 properties."", 'BBC Scotland sat in on a housing consultation with the Scottish Refugee Council for a Sudanese man named Mohammed.', 'Mohammed (right) during his consultation with Robyn Dunbar-Smith of the Scottish Refugee Council and an interpreter', 'The 33-year-old was granted asylum in late September and left his Home Office property.', 'But due to a lack of available accommodation, staff said he was ""street homeless"" for around four weeks.', 'Adviser Robyn Dunbar-Smith was unable to secure a place during the consultation.', 'She told BBC News: ""Hopefully the out-of-hours service at the council can provide accommodation for the night.', '""But to be honest, with the [housing] shortage at the moment, I don\'t know how likely that is.""', 'Sally has faced a number of barriers while seeking safe accommodation for her family', 'Sally is a refugee who was granted asylum status in February this year.', 'The 40-year-old mother feared persecution in her home country and entered the asylum system five years ago.', 'However, after being given leave to remain in the UK, Sally was faced with eviction from a property provided by the Home Office.', 'She and her children waited eight months for council-provided temporary housing while facing the prospect of an eviction case at Glasgow Sheriff Court.', 'Fortunately, she was able to secure temporary accommodation three weeks ago.', 'She said ""Sometimes when I wake up, all day I have a headache.', '""For more than five years, you are in one process. You finish that process and then you have another journey again.', '""I say to myself, \'I don\'t know why I am facing all this.\'""', 'The Scottish Refugee Council told BBC Scotland News it had already seen an increase in refugees granted asylum looking for support with housing.', 'Refugee integration adviser Eilidh McDermott said the projected increase in positive decisions would be ""really hard to manage"".', '""Visibly, we are getting a huge amount of emergency presentations in our offices,"" she said.', '""Families or individuals come to us on a daily basis with no accommodation for the night.', '""Those are families who have been out in the street all day with suitcases, waiting for temporary accommodation to become available.""', 'The Home Office said it ""encourages individuals to make their onward plans as soon as possible after receiving their decision"".', 'A spokesperson said: ""Homelessness in Scotland is ultimately a devolved matter for the Scottish government, but we offer ample support once claims have been granted through Migrant Help, access to the labour market and advice on applying for Universal Credit.""', 'The spokesperson said decommissioning asylum hotels would ""help to relieve pressures on local services and provide a boost to the local economy"".', 'They continued: ""The Home Office continues to work closely with accommodation providers and local authorities to manage the exit process in a way which limits the impact on partners and service users alike.""']"
492,"['The mural had been on display in Tynemouth Station for 11 years', 'A ""friendship"" mural created by young Palestinian refugees has been removed from a train station after a council received a threat it could be defaced.', 'North Tyneside Council, external said it feared someone would daub red paint on it and it took action to protect it.', 'The artwork had been on display at Tynemouth Metro Station since 2012, and was taken down last Friday.', 'The mural has been moved to storage and the council said ""if there is a time to put it back up, we will"".', 'Tynemouth station is owned and managed by Station Developments Ltd', 'The artwork was created as part of the Shatila Street Art Project 2012, in which 10 children and three teachers from the Shatila refugee camp in Beirut, Lebanon, visited North Tyneside for sketching and spray-painting lessons.', 'The trip was organised by Cullercoats based writer Peter Mortimer, who helped set up the Shatila Theatre Charity.', 'Two North Tyneside artists, Faye Oliver and Anthony Downie, helped create the mural.', 'Mr Downie said the mural was ""only meant to be up for six months"".', '""If it has been removed because of the current conflict, it is complete madness,"" he said. ', '""An art mural of friendship created by children over a decade ago should not be removed because of the actions of a far right militant group.""', 'Follow live: Latest updates', 'What is happening in Israel and Gaza, and why now?', 'It has been three weeks since Hamas launched an unprecedented attack on Israel. Israel has since conducted intense bombing on the Gaza Strip.', 'North Tyneside Council said it continued to engage with and support communities impacted by the events in the Middle East. ', 'A spokesperson from Metro operator Nexus said: ""We have no connection with the mural in the market area at Tynemouth Station.""', 'Northumbria Police said it had not received reports of any threat.']"
493,"['Some have been waiting in Pakistan for more than a year, according to charities', 'The first plane bringing Afghan refugees from Pakistan to the UK has landed.', 'The flight left Pakistan with 132 people on board, official sources in the country told the BBC. ', 'Thousands of people who fled the Taliban after working with or for the UK government in Afghanistan have been waiting in Pakistan for relocation.', 'Among them are former translators for the British Army and teachers for the British Council.', 'Pakistan authorities said the UK government had chartered a total of 12 flights to bring Afghans to the UK between now and late December. ', 'All the refugees are part of either the Afghan citizens resettlement scheme or Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy.', 'They were asked to go to Pakistan for visa processing, but charities say some have been waiting there for more than a year, and that many of their visas have now expired.', 'Earlier this month, Pakistan said it planned to start deporting illegal migrants from 1 November.', 'After retaking control of Afghanistan in 2021, the Taliban declared an amnesty for people who worked with international forces, but many Afghans have described still living in fear of reprisals.', ""Some have also told the BBC that, by following the UK's instructions to leave Afghanistan, they are worried that they have put themselves at even more risk. "", 'Qasim - not his real name - was among those who worked with the UK authorities.', '""Before we left Afghanistan, our lives were in 50% danger. Now they are in 100% danger,"" he said.', 'Pakistan orders 1.7 million Afghans out of country', 'Call to help resettle more Afghans who worked for UK', 'According to a risk assessment document revealed in court, the British authorities in Pakistan now consider those awaiting UK visas in Pakistan to be ""at risk of deportation"".', 'Government figures show that some some 3,250 men, women, and children in this group have been living in guest houses and hotels in Pakistani capital Islamabad.', 'While there, they do not have the legal right to work and their children are not able to attend school. ', 'Many thought when they first travelled to Pakistan that they would be waiting there only a few weeks. ', 'Documents released in court showed many had faced longer waits because Prime Minister Rishi Sunak had said that, in all but extreme cases, they could not be brought to the UK and accommodated in hotels.', 'Instead, longer-term accommodation had to be found before they could be relocated. One email said that this arrangement ""should represent an overall net saving to the taxpayer"".', 'The BBC understands that the government has decided those on relocation programmes will no longer need to be matched to ""suitable accommodation"" before they arrive.']"
494,"['East Hampshire District Council is using money from the government and developers to pay for the housing', 'Eight homes have been bought by a council for refugees fleeing Ukraine and Afghanistan.', 'East Hampshire District Council said the accommodation was funded by money from the government and developers.', 'Five of the homes are in Bordon, with two in Petersfield and one in Horndean. Seven homes will be used by Ukrainian refugees and one by an Afghan family.', 'Cllr Adeel Shah said: ""One of our guests wept with emotion when she saw her new home.""', 'He added: ""Thousands of selfless people agreed to share their homes with Ukrainian refugees when the conflict first broke and now we can find them a home to call their own.', '""No one should have to flee their home in fear, but it is a great credit to this country that we are so ready to welcome people in great need and offer them security and comfort.""', 'Mr Shah also made clear that the buildings would be added back to the social housing stock when available again.', 'The Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities asked councils to buy homes to help with the refugee crisis resulting from conflicts in Ukraine and Afghanistan.']"
495,"['This video can not be played', 'A group of refugees from Syria have helped to create a community garden in Ballymoney.', ' A group of Syrian men have created a community garden for the people who helped them when they first moved to Northern Ireland.', 'The four men have been working on the project in Ballymoney, County Antrim, for several months.', 'Bassam Khalil moved to Portstewart, County Londonderry, in 2019.', 'This was after he spent almost eight years living in a tent in a Lebanese refugee camp.', 'Before coming to Northern Ireland, Bassam said his life was ""very bad"" and that there was ""no future and no schools"" for his children.', '""But here, there\'s everything. Everything has changed.', '""It\'s very quiet and lovely by the sea - the people are very kind.""', 'Bassam said ""everything has changed"" since he arrived in Northern Ireland', 'Bassam and the other three men came to Northern Ireland as refugees under the Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme.', 'Since the summer, they have worked on transforming a patch of waste ground into a garden at the Building Communities Resource Centre (BCRC).', 'Bassam said that as the BCRC organisation had helped them with English and settling into the community, they felt it was important to do something in return. ', 'The four men came to Northern Ireland through The Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme', ""Fergal Quinn, BCRC's ethnic communities officer, said the men wanted to give back after being received and welcomed into the community."", '""Every Friday we met and every Friday, without fail, they would be here wanting to do as much as they could,"" he said.', '""And they\'re getting something from this too. We appreciate it so much.""', 'Fergal said it is about helping to create a natural integration into the community.', '""Community works best when it comes together. This empowers them - that, without you, we wouldn\'t be standing next to this beautiful garden.""', 'Conservation volunteers also helped with the project.', 'Project officer David Fleming said: ""The purpose is not just for the BCRC but for the whole community, the shops here, the community around Ballymoney and outlying towns.', '""It brings people together; gets more socialising, more friends helping each other out if you\'re in trouble.""', 'The Syrian boy who charmed social media', 'Bilingual book gives lessons on Northern Ireland', ""'The Irish people learning my language'"", ""Jonathan Hanna, a general manager with a manufacturing company which also wanted to be involved, said there is a lot of diversity among his firm's 300-strong workforce. "", 'He said with new employees joining from places such as India and eastern Europe, it was important for the company to be involved ""to get relationships built and make people feel welcome in the local community"". ', '""We want to give something back to help out, so a lot of people got involved in their own time to design some of the equipment - they made it outside of work.', '""Hopefully our own team members who are part of this community group can use it as well.""']"
496,"['Rev Gaffin said taking in Ukrainian families had been a ""wonderful experience""', 'A vicar has described building ""lifetime"" friendships with Ukrainian refugees she homed and urged others to consider doing the same. ', 'Rev Jenny Gaffin, based in Hayling Island, Hampshire, was inspired by the story of her grandparents who were refugees after World War Two. ', 'She said taking in two families brought ""energy and joy"" into the home.  ', 'Rev Gaffin was speaking as the National Audit Office praised the impact of the Homes For Ukraine scheme.', 'The scheme enables people to act as sponsors for Ukrainian nationals and their families seeking refuge from the war, with individuals being granted three-year visas to stay in the UK.', 'Rev Gaffin grandparents (pictured) were refugees and this inspired her to want to help', 'Rev Gaffin said: ""When I first saw the footage of the war in Ukraine I was reminded so forcefully of my own maternal grandparents who were Hungarian refugees after the Second World War.', '""So of course I wanted to do what I could. I had spare room in the vicarage and I really wanted to welcome people into my home."" ', 'She sponsored two families -  Kateryna and her seven-year-old daughter Nelya, as well as Anna and her five-year-old son Leonid.', 'Going from a single person vicarage to family life with a language barrier was a ""big shock at first but in a very good way"", she said, but that the situation was ultimately a ""wonderful experience"". ', 'Generosity from people like Rev Gaffin enabled the government to move at speed to temporarily support Ukrainians seeking refuge, supporting 131,000 Ukrainians arriving into the UK since March 2022. ', 'Rev Gaffin took in Kateryna (left) and Anna after they fled Ukraine following the outbreak of the war', 'But the National Audit Office said about 8% of Ukrainian refugees are facing homelessness after the scheme ends. ', 'Payments to help host families have now increased from £350 to £500 a month. ', 'Rev Gaffin urged others to take part in scheme but cautioned those considering it to be ""realistic about what you can offer"". ', '""I\'ve formed a friendship that I know will last me a lifetime so do, if you are able to offer a space in your home, please do consider it - it\'s a wonderful thing to do,"" she added. ']"
497,"['Dobrivoje Beljkasic with his daughter, Dragana, and wife, Gordana', ""At the outbreak of the Bosnian War in 1992, artist Dobrivoje Beljkasic lost his life's work in an artillery bombardment in Central Sarajevo."", 'He soon left his homeland with his wife Gordana, to settle in Bristol. ', ""30 years later, an exhibition will be held in Sarajevo, Bosnia, to mark 100 years since Beljkasic's birth and feature work he completed in Bristol. "", 'Beljkasic died in 2015, however his daughter, Dragana Smart, is co-curating the exhibition with the National Gallery of Bosnia.', 'The British Embassy in Bosnia and Herzegovina is  supporting the project and the exhibition will run from October 26 until November 9.', 'Mr Beljkasic had a studio in Sarajevo City Hall', 'Born in 1923 in the town of Vlasenica, Dobri Beljkasic started painting at the age of 16 and then continued studying art both in Paris and Belgrade.', 'He spent 70 years living in Sarajevo, and his life and work were featured in the Encyclopaedia of Fine Arts of Yugoslavia.', 'The Bosnian War took place between 1992 and 1995. Following the breakup of the former-Yugoslavia, rival ethnic factions fought for control of the region.', ""On the night of August 25 and 26, 1992 a vicious artillery attack from the hills destroyed Vijecnica,  which used to be Sarajevo's old City Hall."", ""At the time, the National and University Library of Bosnia and Herzegovina was located in the building, alongside Dobri Beljkasic's studio. "", 'Up to three million books, original manuscripts and priceless cultural works were destroyed in the ensuing fire and Beljkasic lost the vast majority of his extant work. ', ""'Dad's art was destroyed in a vicious attack'"", ""Mr Beljkasic lost the vast majority of his life's work in an artillery strike on his studio"", 'Dragana Smart has lived in Bristol since 1991 and works in public engagement at the University of Bristol. ', 'She said: ""This was a targeted attack to destroy Bosnian cultural heritage - a huge tragedy.""', '""I think this exhibition tells the story of an often forgotten detail that part of Bosnian arts heritage perished in that attack too. ', '""The story of art as resilience - however many years after the war there can be new life and that the cultural heritage of a nation cannot be destroyed."" ', 'Following the loss of his studio, Mr Beljkasic vowed never to paint again and set off with his wife for south-west England.', '""It was a really difficult journey [for my parents],"" Dragana Smart explained, ""They got on the last convoy from the Red Cross.', '""The UK introduced different rules for refugees and they were stuck on route here. ', '""It was only thanks to sheer persistence on my part and the kindness of the Home Office that they were able to enter the country.""', 'The south-west English landscape was a form of inspiration for Mr Beljkasic', '""Like with the Ukrainian people being taken into people\'s homes more recently, my parents\' case is a great example of the generosity of the British people in modern times.', '""An extraordinary kind and generous family in Wiltshire gave them a temporary home at that initial, most difficult time. ""', 'Over two million Bosnians were displaced by the war, and some of them fled the country with the help of the Red Cross and the British Government. ', 'The Bosnian Genocide Educational Trust estimates that around 10-15,000 Bosnians and their descendants still reside in the UK.', 'Upon arriving in Bristol, Dobri Beljkasic joined an art club and reneged on his vow never to paint again.', 'Ms Smart said: ""For my father, the landscapes of Wiltshire, Bristol and the south-west in general gave a lot of inspiration and he carried on painting here.', '""My father\'s story forms part of the Bridging Histories, external project, bringing together different people of all backgrounds to celebrate the cultural diversity in Bristol.""', ""Mr Beljkasic was known as 'the painter of bridges'"", 'Bridging Histories is a We Are Bristol History Commission, external project funded by Bristol University.', '""Bridges - including the Suspension Bridge - were common motifs in my father\'s paintings,"" Ms Smart added, ""He was fascinated by their physical presence, and as a metaphor for connecting people, places and time.', '""The name Bristol comes from Brigstow, the place by the bridge. What a fitting place for him to settle and start a new life.""', ""Dobrivoje Beljkasic's work is in the permanent collections of Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery, the National Gallery of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the City Museum of Sarajevo."", 'His work was included in Moved By Conflict exhibition at MShed in 2014 and Refuge and Renewal exhibition at the RWA in 2020.']"
498,"['Oksana Petrova said the rental home has given her ""a real boost""', 'A home exclusively for Ukrainian refugees who are looking to live independently and rent affordably has launched.', 'Swindon Welcomes Ukraine has partnered with a property developer to provide a House of Multiple Occupation (HMO) to help six Ukrainians in the area.', 'Many Ukrainians who have been hosted for almost 18 months are struggling to be approved for private rentals.', 'It is thought to be the first scheme of its type in the region.', 'The six-bedroom house is providing affordable accomodation to Ukranians', 'Oksana Petrova moved to Swindon more than a year ago, after fleeing the war in Ukraine.', 'She lived with a host family but she said she wanted to become more ""independent and self sufficient"" so she moved into the HMO.', '""I am so grateful for the kindness I have been show by my host family,"" Ms Petrova said.', '""But moving here has given me a real boost, its really difficult for Ukrainians who started with nothing to get accommodation like this."" ', 'Ms Petrova moved into the HMO after living with a host family', 'The six-bedroom HMO is part of a joint project between charity Swindon Welcomes Ukraine and Easy Living Property.', 'The rent is £600 per month and the first payment is paid by Swindon Borough Council.', 'Kris Talikowski, vice-chair of Swindon Welcomes Ukraine, said: ""It\'s going to make a huge difference to people who want to make their first stop on the property ladder.', '""We have helped build that community, through finding them find jobs and teaching English.', '""Now, its about them finding a place to live, and doing that in their own micro-community in a HMO is even better.""', 'The house has been furnished and designed by a Ukrainian interior designer to make the tenants feel connected with home.', 'Ash Zuberi wants other landlords to follow his footsteps', 'Ash Zuberi, director of Easy Living Property and landlord, said: ""If your coming from somewhere where you were mentally scarred, you need somewhere safe where you can rest your head.', '""If you have that, you can really begin to develop your new life.', '""I hope other landlords will follow suit to help more Ukrainians become independent.""']"
499,"['This video can not be played', 'A large number of buildings in a refugee camp in northern Gaza have been destroyed by Israeli strikes.', 'Civilians had been told to leave the area and head to southern Gaza ahead of the strikes.', ""More than 1,400 people in Israel were killed in Hamas attacks just over a week ago. Nearly 2,700 people in Gaza have been killed in Israel's retaliatory bombardment."", 'In footage taken on Saturday, people can be seen walking through the rubble in Jabalia.']"
500,"['Max, 16, accompanied mum Alina to the hospital birth', 'A father, separated from his wife due to the war in Ukraine, has spoken of the stress and anxiety of not being able to support her as she gave birth to their new baby. ', 'Lionel - known as Lio - was delivered at Worcestershire Royal Hospital last month to mum Alina.', '""When Lio was born I was here in Kyiv, miles away from my family, so I was very nervous,"" said dad Roman. ', 'He has only met his son via video calls.', ""Lio's brother Max and Alina fled the war and came to England as refugees in March 2022. "", 'Alina, also a lawyer, went back to Kyiv briefly to visit her husband in January.', '""After a few weeks [when I came back to the UK] I found out that I was pregnant and it was really a surprise for all of us. It made us really happy,"" she said. ', ""Because the dad could not leave Ukraine, the couple's son Max accompanied his mum to hospital for the birth."", '""It really was a huge moment,"" said the 16-year-old. ', 'Roman is unable to leave Kyiv due to the war in Ukraine', 'When his mum Alina had a Caesarean at the Worcester hospital, he waited in a side room for nurses to call him in.', '""I hadn\'t seen anything like that before,"" Max said. ""I was quite nervous really, and scared, but it went fine.""', 'He had never even held a baby before.', '""When I had the caesarean section I couldn\'t take the baby immediately which is why they gave the baby to Max and Max kept him, and then when the operation was finished they gave me the baby,"" Alina, 41, said.', 'As well as helping with his new brother, Max is studying for GCSEs and plays basketball for Worcester Wolves. ', 'Meanwhile his father is bracing himself for hard times ahead.', '""The government is preparing us for a tough winter,"" explained Roman. ', '""Last year there were attacks on critical infrastructure in Ukraine, so there were lots of cut offs of electricity.""', 'The family say they are trying to remain optimistic', 'The family is trying to be optimistic about when they can see each other again and Alina  said that was how they coped. ', '""It\'s difficult, but I\'m very happy to have this baby and this difficulty is temporary,"" she said.', 'Roman said he loved the baby ""so much"" and hoped to see him properly soon. ']"
501,"['A sponsorship scheme for housing Ukrainian nationals reopened on Friday', 'More families are needed to offer Ukrainian refugees a place to live in Guernsey, the States has said.', 'A sponsorship scheme has been running over the past 12 months which has helped find accommodation on the island for 16 Ukraine nationals. ', 'It reopened on Friday and islanders who are willing and able are urged to sign up.  ', 'Deputy Rob Prow said he wanted to thank those ""who have welcomed people into their homes"". ', 'Sponsors receive a payment of £349 per month, per household, to assist with bills.', 'The initial 12-month sponsorship period will shortly end.', 'The States said contact was being made with the 16 Ukraine nationals to check on their circumstances and whether they are able to continue with the scheme. ', 'President of the Committee for Home Affairs, Deputy Prow, said: ""We are again appealing to the people of Guernsey for anyone who feels they are able to offer appropriate accommodation to a Ukrainian national already in the island, to contact our team so that we can review your circumstances.""', 'He said the people of Ukraine had ""been through so much"" and the sponsorship scheme provided a ""further opportunity for islanders to make a very tangible contribution"".']"
502,"['Priti Patel, then home secretary, arrives in Rwanda in April 2022', ""Rwanda's asylum system is so poor that it is biased against many people who could be genuine refugees, say lawyers for the United Nations' Refugee Agency. "", ""The warning came on the second day of the UK government's appeal over its controversial plan to send some asylum seekers to the African country. "", 'The Court of Appeal ruled the scheme unlawful in June. ', 'But ministers say it meets the legal test for treating people humanely. ', ""During a 16-month long battle over the government's plan to send some small boat migrants to Rwanda, evidence from the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) has become increasingly pivotal to whether the country meets a complex legal test of a safe country. "", 'On Tuesday, its barristers told five Supreme Court justices there was no evidence Rwanda had improved its treatment of asylum seekers, even though it had given the British government detailed assurances of fair treatment. ', 'The UN knew of Afghans who had been turned around at Kigali airport and sent home weeks before the UK deal had been struck in April 2022. ', 'Laura Dubinsky KC, for the UN agency, said Syrians and Eritreans had also been expelled without considering the risks they would face. ', 'The key institutions and practices behind those decisions were still operating despite the deal with the UK, she argued.', 'Rwanda Supreme Court showdown: What do we know?', '£63,000 more to remove a migrant than keep in UK', 'While ministers in Kigali may have signed the migration partnership in good faith, the security officials deciding the fate of would-be refugees followed their own rules, the court heard.', 'On Monday, lawyers for the home secretary told the Supreme Court Rwanda could be trusted to treat any asylum seekers sent to the country humanely.', 'Sir James Eadie KC told the Supreme Court there was ""every reason to conclude"" that Rwanda would want the arrangements to work.', 'He said the country had every reputational and financial incentive to treat asylum seekers well - and that even if there were genuine concerns, extensive monitoring had been put in place.', 'A government official would be permanently stationed in Kigali to make the deal work and also to flag concerns. There would also be further independent monitoring of what happened to each migrant, he said.', 'These arrangements, alongside the detailed written commitments given to the UK under the £140m scheme, meant there was no legal reason to interfere with the plan, the government argued.']"
503,"['This video can not be played', ""The Israeli military says it's regained control of all southern communities attacked by Palestinian gunmen over the weekend. "", 'The defence minister has ordered a total siege of Gaza, as Hamas continues its rocket barrages. ', 'Palestinian health officials say at least 15 people were killed in an Israeli attack in the densely populated Jabalia refugee camp in the north of the strip.']"
504,"[""Farshid has said he may have to sleep on the streets if he can't find somewhere to live soon"", 'Refugees are becoming homeless after failing to hit Home Office deadlines to find accommodation, it is claimed. ', ""Donna King, chief executive of Refugees Welcome North Somerset, said people are not given enough time to find a place to live once they've gained refugee status. "", '""We just have barriers, we\'re just setting up people to fail,"" she said. ', 'The Home Office said ""pressure"" on the asylum system has grown, and costs have risen.', 'A North Somerset Council spokesperson said the increased resources provided by the Home Office to enable  asylum claims to be processed faster has resulted in ""an increase in numbers of households requiring assistance"".', '""There have been occasions when households have only been issued with seven days\' notice which puts significant pressure on individuals, statutory services and voluntary agencies to find employment, housing and benefits,"" they said.', '""Rough sleeping numbers in North Somerset remain static.""', 'Farshid, a chef from Iran, has been staying in a hotel in North Somerset for two years. ', 'He has recently been given refugee status and can stay and work for at least five years.', 'He said: ""In Iran, life is very hard. You\'re working very hard and there isn\'t enough money for life.""', 'He explained came to the UK to ""start his life"".', 'He said he is excited about looking for jobs in hospitality after two ""hard"" years waiting in the hotel, but he has not yet been able to find accommodation.', '""I don\'t know where I will go, maybe the street?"" he said.', '""We asked the council, they said they don\'t have anything for me.""', 'Donna King is chief executive of Refugees Welcome North Somerset', 'Ms King said: ""For the first time, we are seeing people in North Somerset being made homeless as a result of receiving their asylum claims.', '""So they\'ve got the right to live and work in the UK - which should be a positive time - but it comes with notice to leave their temporary accommodation.""', 'The Home Office explained that people get 28 days to move on from hotel accommodation.', 'They then get a ""notice to quit"" support letter issued at least seven days before the accommodation is due to end. ', 'A Home Office spokesperson added: ""We encourage individuals to make their onward plans as soon as possible after receiving their decision, whether that is leaving the UK following a refusal, or taking steps to integrate in the UK following a grant."" ', 'But North Somerset Council and Refugees Welcome North Somerset report they are still seeing instances where people are still being given seven days to get a job and find accommodation, which goes against the Home Office guidelines of 28 days.', 'The Home Office has been approached for further comment on this.', 'Ms King said they have been left ""scrambling"" around trying to help people and blamed the housing market saying it is ""inaccessible"" to anyone. ', '""I\'m worried about the people who have disappeared,"" she said. ', '""Those people are vulnerable to abuse, to exploitation, to attack and they are very visible."" ', 'Speeding up the asylum process has led to more people leading accommodation, North Somerset Council says', 'John Penrose, MP for Weston-super-Mare, said the asylum process needed to be made simpler.', 'He added: ""It\'s great we\'re speeding up processing of asylum claims to unblock the system and empty the hotels.', '""That means the rest of the system needs to speed up too, otherwise we\'re just swapping an asylum problem for a homelessness and joblessness problem, and condemning legal migrants to being dependent on handouts when they could, and should, be standing on their own two feet.""']"
505,"['Haroon Armani, 18, died after going into the river at Cardington Lock during hot weather in June', 'A teenage Afghan refugee drowned while swimming in an English river during the summer heatwave, an inquest heard. ', 'Haroon Armani, 18, was with a friend in the River Great Ouse at Cardington Lock in Bedford on Friday 16 June when he got into trouble. ', 'A boy and girl dived in to try to find him.', 'Bedfordshire senior coroner Emma Whitting concluded he died of misadventure and said his knowledge of open water was ""unknown"".', 'The inquest in Ampthill heard Mr Armani had been used to swimming at a pool in a local gym.', 'He was pulled from the water and rushed to hospital, where he died the following morning.  ', 'The cause of death was recorded as multiple organ failure as a result of drowning. ', 'Mr Armani was used to swimming at the local gym but it was not known if he was used to open water', 'Social worker Roseanne Johnstone from Bedford Borough Council said Mr Armani arrived in the UK in August 2021 as an unaccompanied adult. ', 'He had fled Afghanistan because he feared the Taliban, as members of his family had been in the army - the inquest heard.', 'Mr Armani travelled with a group to Pakistan and they were smuggled in trucks through Bulgaria, Serbia, Slovenia, Italy and France, before crossing the channel from Calais on a small boat.', 'Last December, he was granted leave to remain.', ""He was living in Bedford and attended Luton's Barnfield College. His ambition was to be a police officer. "", '""He was a fit, healthy, very active young man. He had always got a smile on his face,"" said Ms Johnstone.', 'Ms Whitting said: ""In hot weather he entered water of the Great Ouse. Whilst he was familiar with swimming indoors, the extent of his experience and knowledge of open water was unknown."" ']"
506,"['The festival includes a variety of artistic performances, including comedy, dance and drama.', 'Art by refugees, migrants and displaced people is going on show at a festival in South-West England.', 'The Platforma festival will include visual art, drama, music and comedy and aims to challenge the perception of refugees.', 'It was created by Almir Koldzic who moved to the UK from Yugoslavia in 1995 to escape the Yugoslav wars.', 'He said: ""Refugees are either seen as victims without any agency or they are seen as a threat.', '""Or they are seen as someone who wants to abuse our generosity and our systems.', '""Art and culture can tell more nuanced stories. It can help us to better understand their circumstances, their histories, their contributions, their skills.""', 'Platforma festival returns every two years in a different part of England, and following its success in Yorkshire 2021, it will be hosted across the south-west from 1 October until 5 November.', 'The festival aims to show the healing and consolidatory abilities of art and cultural expression.', 'Now in its seventh year, the festival is managed by Counterpoints Arts, a London-based organisation that seeks to promote the artistic contributions of migrants and refugees in British society.', 'Mr Koldzic founded Counterpoints in 2012. ', 'He added: ""Arts and culture is also a fantastic way of opening spaces, where we don\'t need to tell people what to think of refugees. ', '""The idea is to open up spaces and tell stories that invite people to make up their own minds.""', ""Tasnim Siddiqa Amin is a producer for this year's festival. "", 'She said: ""The great thing about Platforma is going to that region and building on the connections we already have. ', '""It\'s not just about going into the South West but also bringing people and organisations in to the South West. ', '""The unique thing about this festival is that it moves regions, and the way we do partnership work as an organisation, we invest time into that region.""', 'Hiba Elhindi is from Sudan and came to the UK in 2014', 'One such Bristol-based contributor is Sudafest: Hope and Healing. ', 'Hiba Elhindi is the founder of the collective celebrating the art and culture of Sudan.', '""I am from Sudan, and I came to the UK in 2014,"" she said.', '""I have lived in Bristol pretty much that whole time. I have been engaging in many activities in the Sudanese community.', '""I would say around 90% of the Sudanese population in Bristol are refugees.""', 'Ms Elhindi believes that artistic expression can transcend linguistic and cultural barriers to convey information. ', 'She said: ""We have been working really hard in using art and culture as a platform for Sudanese current issues.', '""I don\'t think there is enough media coverage of the war in Sudan in the UK, and people may not be aware of the issue. ', '""We have been using Sudafest as a platform to raise awareness about what is happening there."" ', ""Another installment in this year's festival is an exhibition by Devon-based photographer Frankie Mills. "", 'Good Evening We Are From Ukraine follows the lives of about a dozen Ukrainian refugees as they adapt to life in Devon, finding a home in their new communities. ', 'Tanya Drobot & Valentyna Romanchook climb a small mound on Dartmoor at sunrise midwinter', '""The reason I\'ve been working on this project, is that it seemed really interesting to see Ukrainian refugees welcomed to a part of the world that isn\'t that diverse or multicultural,"" she said.', '""But there was a huge surge to help Ukrainian refugees, and I felt that this has really showcased the best of humanity."" ', 'Frankie Mills followed Ukrainian refugees in their day-to-day lives', '""It\'s inspiring that there\'s a festival that\'s promoting work made by or for a diaspora in a region where those communities aren\'t necessarily visible,"" Ms Mills explained.', '""[The refugees] were able to find a sense of trust with me. ', '""I have been following them around to English classes, the supermarket and their daily life. ', '""I have been walking alongside them and taking photos, people have been unbelievably supportive and respective of me taking photos of them.', '""I really feel like they have let me in and I have gained a new community because of it.""']"
507,"['This video can not be played', 'Siranush Sargsyan explains what the situation is like in Nagorno-Karabakh as thousands of refugees attempt to cross the border to Armenia. ', ""The reporter from Stepanakert says they've been queuing for 16 hours and remain miles from the border."", 'More than 100,000 refugees have now arrived in Armenia from Nagorno-Karabakh, according to the UN.', ""Video edited by Gem O'Reilly""]"
508,"['Ali Ibrahim has been sleeping outside the West Berkshire Council offices', 'Two asylum seekers who have have been granted leave to remain in the UK are sleeping in tents outside a council building.', 'The men - from Sudan and Syria - have been camping outside the West Berkshire Council offices in Newbury.', 'The pair said they had been left with no allowances and were given seven days to find a job and a place of residence.', 'Ali Ibrahim, who had fled war in Darfur, Sudan, said that all he wanted was ""a place to stay"".', ""Mr Ibrahim's permission to stay was granted a month ago but he had to leave the hotel where he had been staying, together with other asylum seekers, and his allowance of £7 a week was withdrawn."", 'West Berkshire Council has no homes available for the refugees and they are receiving meals from Newbury Soup Kitchen.', 'Mr Ibrahim said he was told to ""go to a local charity to get the tent"".', 'Reem Gabriel, local resident and freelance interpreter said: ""He\'s here every day, he goes in every day, and they say there\'s no place for him.', '""And they get an appointment for the job centre for Universal Credit support, but they say to them \'We cannot give you any benefit unless you have a place to stay.\'""', ""Ali Ibrahim's permission to stay was granted a month ago but he had to leave the hotel where he had been staying for more than a year"", 'The Home Office said pressure on the asylum system ""has continued to grow"".', '""Individuals will still get at least 28 days to move on from accommodation and where an individual has not had a BRP [Biometric residence permit] card issued within the 28 day notice period, they remain on support until it is issued,"" it added.', 'West Berkshire Council said it was ""working hard"" to find suitable accommodation and wanted to ""ensure the encampment outside the council office doesn\'t increase in size"".', '""All requests for housing support were processed in the same way for fairness and could take time because of pressure on the local housing supply,"" it said.']"
509,"[""The banner features the motto from Ken Loach's new film The Old Oak"", 'At a glance', 'A Syrian restaurant owner and Yorkshire textile designer have brought people together through food and art in Bradford', ""They've created a banner celebrating the contribution of Syrian refugees"", ""The artwork marks the release of Ken Loach's new film The Old Oak"", 'A Syrian restaurant owner and a Yorkshire textile designer have teamed up to highlight the contribution refugees make to Bradford.', ""Qusay Amer, who left Syria 10 years ago, and Hayley Mills-Styles brought residents together to share food and create a banner marking the release of Ken Loach's new film The Old Oak."", ""They said they wanted to celebrate the film's themes of togetherness and community."", 'The Old Oak tells the story of Syrian refugees arriving in a former pit village.', 'A disused pub in County Durham was converted into The Old Oak for filming', 'The banner created at the workshop features the film\'s motto - ""It\'s not where you\'re from, it\'s what you bring"".', 'The Old Oak centres on a pub in County Durham - the only remaining meeting space in a once-thriving mining community.', 'When refugees arrive in the city, the community is divided and the pub becomes contested territory.', 'Scarborough-based textile designer Ms Mills-Styles said: ""The main focus of the film is \'it\'s not where you\'re from, it\'s what you bring\' - and we really wanted that theme to come through in our workshop.', '""Bradford is a City of Sanctuary and there are a lot of Syrian refugees here in the city.""', 'Qusay Amer is a Syrian refugee and now runs restaurants in West Yorkshire', 'Mr Amer, who runs restaurants in Bradford and Leeds and provided food for the workshop, said: ""Food plays a major part in representing anyone\'s culture. It is the nicest way to talk about your culture.', '""That makes it interesting for people to start asking questions. You can introduce your country to people in a more authentic way.""', 'The Old Oak is released in cinemas on 29 September, and the banner made in Bradford will be taken to one of the local screenings.']"
510,"['Thousands have been subject to rigorous checks at the Armenia-Azerbaijani border', 'Some 42,500 ethnic Armenians have now fled Nagorno-Karabakh, Armenian officials say - a third of the population of the enclave which Azerbaijan seized last week.', 'Hundreds of cars are backed up on the one road leading into Armenia. ', 'Azerbaijan says residents will be safe, but Armenia\'s prime minister says ""ethnic cleansing"" has started.', 'Nagorno-Karabakh - recognised as part of Azerbaijan - had been run by ethnic Armenians for three decades.', 'The mountainous region in the South Caucasus has been supported by Armenia - but also by its ally, Russia.', ""At least 200 ethnic Armenians and dozens of Azerbaijani soldiers were killed as Azerbaijan's army swept in. As part of a ceasefire deal, separatists have agreed to surrender their weapons. "", 'The Azeris have said they want to treat ethnic Armenians as ""equal citizens"" but a limited amount of aid has been allowed through and many residents are fleeing.', 'On Monday, a massive fuel blast killed at least 68 people attempting to leave.', 'Nearly 300 more were injured and 105 are missing.', 'It is not yet clear what caused the explosion on Monday evening near the main city of Khankendi, known as Stepanakert by Armenians, but many were refilling their cars. ', 'As they crossed the border on Tuesday, thousands of ethnic Armenians were subject to rigorous checks from Azerbaijani border control.', 'Azerbaijani authorities claimed to be looking for ""war crimes"" suspects, and one government source told Agence France Presse news agency that the country intended to apply an ""amnesty to Armenian fighters who laid down their arms in Karabakh"".', '""But those who committed war crimes during the Karabakh wars must be handed over to us,"" they said.', 'Hundreds of cars and buses are trying to reach the town of Goris across the border.', 'A BBC team saw families crammed into cars, boots overflowing and roof-racks piled high with belongings. Convinced they are leaving their homes for good, people are squeezing as much of their lives as possible into their vehicles.', 'Inside Goris, a small town that is the same dusty brown as the jagged mountains that surround it, the narrow streets are filled with more cars and more families. One has arrived in a car held together with little more than sticking tape, its side badly dented and dotted with shrapnel holes, and windows smashed.', 'The owner tells the BBC it was hit by mortar fire when Azerbaijan launched a lightning assault to take control of the region last week. ""But it still got us here,"" he smiles, surrounded by small children.', 'A family made the journey from Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia in their heavily damaged car', 'On the main town square, people mill around, unsure what to do next. Volunteers hand out some basic food and blankets. ', 'Evacuees are registered and there is the occasional bus to move people on to another town or village. But few seem to have a plan, beyond getting this far.', 'For two days last week, Malina and her family all huddled in their cellar as their village was under fire. After the Karabakh forces surrendered, Malina says the local authorities told everyone to leave for Armenia, for safety. Their village in the Martakert region of Nagorno-Karabakh is now empty.', 'Malina says her family left because - whatever the assurances - they would not feel safe under Azerbaijani rule. ', 'Malina says she and her grandchildren fled to seek safety', 'That sentiment is echoed by many others watching the situation unfold. ', 'On Tuesday, US Secretary of state Antony Blinken urged Azerbaijan\'s President Ilham Aliyev to provide ""unconditional protections and freedom of movement for civilians"", and called for ""unhindered humanitarian access to Nagorno-Karabakh"".', 'UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres also called for both sides to respect human rights. ', 'So far, only one aid delivery of 70 tonnes of food has been allowed through since separatists accepted a ceasefire and agreed to disarm. Azerbaijan announced that another aid convoy, with 40 tonnes of flour and badly-needed hygiene products, was on its way to the enclave.', 'Ethnic Armenian leaders say thousands are without food or shelter and sleeping in basements, school buildings or outside.', ""The Armenian health ministry said it was sending helicopters to evacuate patients from the region's strained hospitals. Azerbaijan also said it had sent medical supplies."", 'Explained: Conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh', 'Panic in Karabakh as people fear ethnic cleansing', 'Spoils of Karabakh war paraded as aid trickles in', 'On Tuesday, envoys from Armenia and Azerbaijan met in Brussels for European Union-backed talks.', 'It was the first time diplomatic negotiations have been held between the two countries since Azerbaijan seized the enclave last week.', ""Azerbaijan has also started separate negotiations with Karabakh's ethnic Armenian authorities about the region's future."", 'This video can not be played', 'Nagorno-Karabakh: Voices of Armenians fleeing']"
511,"['This video can not be played', 'Braverman: Allowing people to claim asylum after travelling through safe countries is ""absurd and unsustainable""', 'Home Secretary Suella Braverman is facing criticism after she said the international asylum system was no longer fit for purpose. ', 'In a speech earlier, Mrs Braverman said fearing discrimination for being gay or a woman should not be enough to qualify for refugee protection. ', 'But the United Nations\' refugee agency (UNHCR) rejected her calls for the rules to be ""tightened"". ', 'It said the 1951 Refugee Convention ""remains a life-saving instrument"". ', ""The convention forms the basis of the UNHCR's work and provides an agreed definition of a refugee and minimum standards for their treatment. "", 'In a statement following Mrs Braverman\'s speech, the UNHCR said: ""The need is not for reform, or more restrictive interpretation, but for stronger and more consistent application of the convention and its underlying principle of responsibility-sharing.""', 'The agency added: ""Where individuals are at risk of persecution on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity, it is crucial that they are able to seek safety and protection.""', 'It argued an ""appropriate response"" to the growing numbers seeking asylum in the UK and the backlog of claims would be speeding up decision-making processes. ', 'Charities also criticised the home secretary\'s comments, with ActionAid UK describing them as ""a direct affront to gender equality and human rights"". ', ""Where it's illegal to be gay"", 'How is the UK stopping Channel crossings?', 'Government committed to Rwanda plan, Braverman says', 'The Refugee Convention was drawn up following World War Two, and has at its centre the principle that refugees should not be returned to countries where they face threats to their life or freedom.', 'However, addressing a US think tank on Tuesday, Mrs Braverman said ""we now live in a completely different time"" from when the convention was signed.', 'She told an audience at the right-wing American Enterprise Institute in Washington DC that developing case law had seen a move away from helping those fleeing persecution ""in favour of something more akin to a definition of \'discrimination\'"". ', 'The home secretary acknowledged there were ""vast swathes of the world where it is extremely difficult to be gay, or to be a woman"". ', '""Where individuals are being persecuted, it is right that we offer sanctuary,"" she said.', '""But we will not be able to sustain an asylum system if in effect, simply being gay, or a woman, and fearful of discrimination in your country of origin is sufficient to qualify for protection.""', 'There are 64 countries that have laws that criminalise homosexuality, nearly half of which are in Africa.', 'Given that much of the world is signed up to the existing convention it is unlikely Ms Braverman will manage to drive through reforms.', ""But her comments highlight the government's determination to take a tough approach on migration as it seeks to stop people crossing the Channel to the UK in small boats. "", 'Sacha Deshmukh, chief executive of human rights charity Amnesty International UK, said: ""The Refugee Convention is a cornerstone of the international legal system and we need to call out this assault on the convention for what it is: a display of cynicism and xenophobia.""', 'Labour said Mrs Braverman was ""grandstanding"" and using gay people and women as ""scapegoats"".', ""There has also been a backlash from some in Mrs Braverman's own party."", 'Andrew Boff, a long-serving Conservative member on the London Assembly and patron of the LGBT+ Tories, accused her of ""dog whistles"" and ""victim-blaming"" to distract from ""the appalling backlog of asylum claims"". ', 'One Tory MP, who did not want to be named, told the BBC they thought the speech was ""awful"" and that unless the prime minister ""gets rid"" of Mrs Braverman there was a danger it ""reflects poorly on him"". ', ""Downing Street said it had signed off the home secretary's speech."", 'Other Conservatives were more supportive, with Tim Loughton, a Conservative member of the Commons Home Affairs Committee, saying Mrs Braverman ""had a point"".', '""The UK cannot be the refugee camp for the entire world and that\'s why we need to look at exactly how these international agreements can work in the 2020s,"" he told the BBC.', 'The convention was drawn up in 1951 and came into force three years later, during an era where millions were displaced across Europe after World War Two', ""It was originally drafted to focus specifically on Europe's post-war refugees - but a 1967 amendment removed the geographic and time limits included in the original text and made the convention universal"", 'The convention provides an agreed definition of a refugee, establishes basic minimum standards for their treatment, and says that refugees should not be penalised for breaching immigration rules while fleeing', 'Its core principle is ""non-refoulement"" - which means refugees should not be returned or expelled from a country against their will if they fear for their life or freedom', 'Almost 150 countries have signed up to the Convention', 'Mrs Braverman also used her speech to attack ""a misguided dogma of multiculturalism"".', '""Multiculturalism makes no demands of the incomer to integrate,"" she said adding: ""It has failed because it allowed people to come to our society and live parallel lives in it.', '""And, in extreme cases, they could pursue lives aimed at undermining the stability and threatening the security of society.""', 'The home secretary said her parents - who migrated to the UK from Mauritius and Kenya - ""both signed up to British values wholeheartedly"".', ""Mrs Braverman's decision to visit Washington and make such a punchy speech will inevitably be seen through the lens of her own leadership ambitions."", 'She ran unsuccessfully for the Conservative leadership last summer and is a likely candidate to stand again should Rishi Sunak lose the next general election.', 'In 2022, there were 1,334 asylum applications lodged in the UK, external, where sexual orientation was part of the basis for the claim. ', 'This represents 1.5% of 74,751 asylum claims made last year.', 'The top countries of origin were Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nigeria. In all three countries consensual same-sex sexual acts are illegal. They are punishable by life imprisonment and, in some parts of northern Nigeria, by death (according to The International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, external)', 'However, sexual orientation may not be the only grounds on which the asylum applications were made. ', 'Also, we do not know whether sexual orientation influenced the outcome of the claims.']"
512,"['Rescue and medical personnel work following an explosion in the gas warehouse near the Stepanakert-Askera highway in Berkadzor on 26 September', 'An explosion at a fuel depot in Nagorno-Karabakh has killed 20 people and injured hundreds more, local ethnic-Armenian authorities say.', 'Nearly 300 people were admitted to hospitals, with dozens of them reported to be in a critical condition.', 'It comes as the Armenian government said more than 28,000 refugees had crossed into the country since local forces surrendered to Azerbaijan.', 'The disputed region is home to some 120,000 ethnic Armenians.', 'It is not yet clear what caused the explosion on Monday evening near the main city of Khankendi, known as Stepanakert by Armenians.', 'Petrol stations have been overwhelmed as thousands try to leave the region, which was already suffering from a fuel shortage following a months-long blockade.', 'The only road connecting Armenia to the enclave remains backed up with hundreds of cars and buses, filled with ethnic Armenians trying to reach the town of Goris across the border.', ""The winding mountain road from Goris to Armenia's capital, Yerevan, has also been heavy with traffic from well before dawn."", 'A BBC team saw families crammed into cars, boots overflowing and roof-racks piled high with belongings. Convinced they are leaving their homes for good, people are squeezing as much of their lives as possible into their vehicles.', 'Inside Goris, a small town that is the same dusty brown as the jagged mountains that surround it, the narrow streets are filled with more cars and more families. One has arrived in a car held together with little more than sticking tape, its side badly dented and dotted with shrapnel holes, and windows smashed.', 'The owner tells the BBC it was hit by mortar fire when Azerbaijan launched a lightning assault to take control of the region last week. ""But it still got us here,"" he smiles, surrounded by small children.', 'A family made the journey from Nagorno-Karabakh to Armenia in their heavily damaged car', 'On the main town square, people mill around unsure what to do next. Volunteers hand out some basic food and blankets. ', 'Evacuees are registered and there is the occasional bus to move people on to another town or village. But few seem to have a plan, beyond getting this far.', ""Malina left her husband's grave behind in their village. He died soon after the six-week war that broke out in 2020, the most recent violence before this month."", 'She says his nerves gave out. She keeps an eye on four grandchildren playing nearby as we speak. They think this trip is temporary, that they will eventually go home like last time, and Malina does not want to upset them yet with the truth. ', 'For two days last week, they all huddled in their cellar as their village was under fire. After the Karabakh forces surrendered, Malina says the local authorities told everyone to leave for Armenia, for safety. Their village in the Martakert region of Nagorno-Karabakh is now empty.', 'Malina says her family left because - whatever the assurances - they would not feel safe under Azerbaijani rule. ', 'Malina says she and her grandchildren fled to seek safety', ""Despite Azerbaijan's public reassurances, there are fears about the residents of Nagorno-Karabakh, with only one aid delivery of 70 tonnes of food having been allowed through since separatists accepted a ceasefire and agreed to disarm."", 'Azerbaijan announced that another aid convoy, with 40 tonnes of flour and badly-needed hygiene products, was on its way to the enclave.', 'Ethnic-Armenian leaders say thousands are without food or shelter and sleeping in basements, school buildings or outside.', 'In a statement on Tuesday, local officials said doctors were working in ""difficult and cramped conditions"" to save the lives of those injured in the fuel depot explosion, adding that hospitals were treating 290 patients with various degrees of burns.', 'They said 13 unidentified bodies were found at the scene of the explosion and seven more died in hospital.', 'Human Rights Ombudsman Gegham Stepanyan wrote on social media: ""The health condition of the majority is severe or extremely severe. The medical capacities of Nagorno-Karabakh are not enough.""', ""The Armenian health ministry said it was sending helicopters to evacuate patients from the region's strained hospitals. Azerbaijan also said it had sent medical supplies."", 'This video can not be played', 'Nagorno-Karabakh: Voices of Armenians fleeing', 'Armenia\'s Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan has said that ethnic cleansing is ""under way"" in the region.', '""That\'s happening just now, and that is [a] very unfortunate fact, because we were trying to urge international community on that,"" Nikol Pashinyan told reporters.', 'But Azerbaijan has said it wants to re-integrate the ethnic Armenians as ""equal citizens"".', 'The head of the US Agency for International Development, Samantha Power, called on Azerbaijan ""to maintain the ceasefire and take concrete steps to protect the rights of civilians in Nagorno-Karabakh"".', 'She said the international community should to be given access to the region and announced $11.5m (£9.5m) of US aid to assist those fleeing.', 'Explained: Conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh', 'Panic in Karabakh as people fear ethnic cleansing', 'Spoils of Karabakh war paraded as aid trickles in', 'Envoys from Armenia and Azerbaijan met in Brussels for European Union-backed talks.', 'It was the first time diplomatic talks have been held between the two countries since Azerbaijan seized the enclave last week.', ""Azerbaijan has also started separate negotiations with Karabakh's ethnic-Armenian authorities about the region's future."", 'This video can not be played', ""The BBC's Nataliya Zotova reports from the border between Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh"", 'Nagorno-Karabakh - a mountainous region in the South Caucasus - is recognised internationally as part of Azerbaijan, but has been controlled by ethnic Armenians for three decades.', 'The enclave has been supported by Armenia - but also by its ally, Russia, which has had a peacekeeping mission there for the past three years.', ""Five Russian peacekeepers were killed - alongside at least 200 ethnic Armenians and dozens of Azerbaijani soldiers - as Azerbaijan's army swept in last week."", ""On Sunday, Azerbaijan's defence ministry said it had confiscated more military equipment, including a large number of rockets, artillery shells, mines and ammunition.""]"
513,"['Braverman spoke to the American Enterprise Institute in Washington DC today', ""Today we heard from Home Secretary Suella Braverman, who challenged the UN's convention for protecting refugees during a speech at a right-wing think tank in the US. "", 'What she said', 'How others reacted', '', 'The figures', 'The big picture', ""Much of the world is signed up to the UN's Refugee Convention - so the idea she could single-handedly drive through reforms, or that it is in her remit alone, is quite unrealistic, our political correspondent Ione Wells writes."", 'But by starting the debate she wants to highlight a determination to take a tough approach on migration.', ""Our full story can be found here. We're signing off for the night, thanks for joining us.""]"
514,"['Introduced in June 2022, the scheme to offer free bus travel to Ukrainian refugees in Surrey is being extended', 'Free bus travel for Ukrainian refugees in Surrey has been extended into next year.', 'Run under the Homes for Ukraine scheme, it has been extended from December until the end of March 2024.', 'Eight bus operators are offering free travel on their most popular routes.', 'Matt Furniss, cabinet member for transport, infrastructure and growth at Surrey County Council, said: ""Users have reported benefits in reducing isolation and improving mental health.', '""The scheme has already proven to be a great help for Ukrainian families as they settle into a new life here in Surrey and it\'s great that it will continue.""', 'New users can still sign up to the programme, originally introduced in June 2022.', 'Similar schemes have been offered to Ukrainian refugees around the country.']"
515,"['Swindon Borough Council is considering joining a refugee sanctuary network', 'Wiltshire politicians have been asked to affirm their commitment to welcoming refugees and asylum seekers.', ""Swindon Borough Council's Labour cabinet is considering requests for the borough to join the growing City of Sanctuary UK, external network. "", 'The group works with councils to foster inclusivity, solidarity and compassion.', 'The status will be largely symbolic as Swindon is already in the top five for cities and towns in the south west taking in refugees.', 'That is according to a report put to cabinet on Wednesday by the City of Sanctuary team, the Local Democracy Reporting Service said.', 'The report explained Swindon Borough Council has already ""directly provided support for refugees fleeing both Afghanistan and Ukraine"".', ""'Swindon has been responding to the urgent needs of migrants fleeing their home country due to violence and persecution for decades,' a City of Sanctuary report stated"", 'The City of Sanctuary team ensures accommodation is checked and appropriate safeguarding arrangements are in place with the hosts.', 'Joining the voluntary network would not mean Swindon receives more, or fewer refugees and asylum seekers - but cabinet members will be asked to endorse it and its principles.', 'They include celebrating the contribution of refugees and migrant communities in Swindon, working with organisations who support refugees, asylum seekers and migrants in the borough to create an inclusive and welcoming place for those seeking sanctuary.', 'The network also challenges anti-refugee and anti-migrant attitudes wherever they are found.', 'The request comes after Labour took control of Swindon Borough Council in May.']"
516,"['Boxing coach Chris Sanigar opened Bristol Boxing Club in 1989', 'A boxing coach who has trained British and world champions is now helping a talented young Ukrainian pursue his dreams of a career in the sport. ', 'Vladimir came to Bristol with his family following the outbreak of war in Ukraine.', 'He was encouraged to attend Bristol Boxing Club after attending a church in the city and coach Chris Sanigar is now offering his services for free.', '""It means a lot because I come from a big boxing family,"" said Vladimir.', 'Mr Sanigar was a regional champion boxer in his youth and opened Bristol Boxing Club in 1989.', 'The club is also the home of Empire Fighting Chance, a charity which uses non-contact boxing and support to help young people in need aged between eight and 25. ', 'Vladimir came to Bristol with his family following the outbreak of war in Ukraine', 'Mr Sanigar said the children he helps often suffer through inequality and poverty, but that helping Vladimir was a particular joy due to the reasons he arrived in England.', '""First of all, we just gave him a big Bristol welcome and we were just so pleased to help him especially because of his circumstances,"" he said.', '""We\'ve been helping people for over 50 years but he\'s got exceptional circumstances so the more we can do for him the better. ', '""That\'s what we do with Vladimir or anyone else who has bad circumstances,"" added Mr Sanigar.', 'Christy McMullen met Vladimir when he visited a Ukrainian hub church set-up in the Hotwells area of the city for people who have been forced to leave the country.', '""He was looking for somewhere to go and I could see the potential in him so I phoned Chris and this place has been amazing in helping him. ', '""The least we can do is reach out and help them,"" said Mr McMullen.', 'Vladimir has big ambitions and his aim is to be the national boxing champion of Ukraine.', '""I am very grateful to Christy and Chris for the opportunity to train here, for my coaches and for everybody else here,"" he said.']"
517,"['Kurt Erich Glauber fled to the UK from Austria and later became a spy for MI6', 'A Jewish refugee who spied for the UK during World War Two is to be given a memorial to commemorate his role.', 'Dr Kurt Erich Glauber, a lawyer in Vienna, fled to England when German troops invaded Austria in 1938 and Jews were banned from practicing.', 'He moved to Ipswich, was recruited by MI6 and returned to Austria as a spy for the UK, but was captured and died in Mauthausen concentration camp.', 'His memorial, unveiled later by his nephew, is in Ipswich Old cemetery.', ""Members of the Ipswich War Memorial, external group, who have been researching Mr Glauber's role in the war, said he was among about 20 Jewish refugees who ended up in the Suffolk town."", 'Mr Glauber was born in 1902 and at the age of 37, banned from working by the Nazis, he escaped his homeland and ended up in Ipswich.', ""He lived in Norwich Road, in a house that is now a vaping shop called What's Ya Flava."", 'Kurt Glauber (centre), pictured in 1941 with his mother Ernestine, sister Lucile, and his nephew - who will unveil the memorial', 'He worked in a laundry and in 1941 joined the non-fighting Pioneer Corps.', 'He later joined the Royal Artillery, but researchers said that was a ""cover story"" as Mr Glauber had been recruited by MI6.', 'This photo was taken in 1909 and shows Kurt Glauber at the age of six, with his younger brother Gerhard', ""Andrew Beal, who looked into Mr Glauber's background, said it was believed he had been returned to Austria, reporting back on factories where the Germans were developing weapons."", 'In 1945 he was picked up by the Gestapo, interrogated and imprisoned in Mauthausen concentration camp in Austria.', 'He died in April that year.', ""After the war, Mr Glauber was posthumously awarded the King's Commendation for Brave Conduct."", 'The house Where Mr Glauber lived is now a vape shop', 'The new memorial in Ipswich - a black marble monument - includes the Star of David and the fact that he worked as a secret agent for MI6.', 'Its creation marked a ""historic partnership between the Jewish American Society for Historic Preservation UK (JASHP), the Association of Jewish Ex-servicemen and Women, and the Ipswich War Memorial Project"", researchers said.', ""The memorial is expected to be unveiled by Mr Glauber's nephew, Tony Japhet.""]"
518,"['Frozan Marofi is among the Afghan refugees who have found a welcome in Newport Pagnell', 'A group of Afghan refugees who spent two years living in a hotel have thanked the ""friendly"" community that welcomed them. ', 'They fled Afghanistan when the Taliban took control in August 2021. ', 'A group of volunteers in Newport Pagnell, Buckinghamshire, offered the women support and friendship when they arrived.', 'The women then took part in activities at the Mead Centre, external, with a new exhibition there sharing the story. ', 'It is designed to show how the two groups learned together and built lasting relationships.', 'Frozan Marofi, one of the women to arrive under the government\'s Operation Warm Welcome scheme, said the UK was a place where gender equality was taken seriously and women could ""dream, study and work without any limitations"".', 'Volunteers at the Mead Centre taught the Afghan women how to make pancakes', 'Ms Marofi, who used to live in Kabul, said: ""After the takeover of the Taliban, the rules and rights for women were changed.', '""Women in my country were banned from following their education, their careers and their own dreams.""', 'Council buys house to support Afghan refugees', 'Afghan refugee family moved 500 miles to Inverness', ""Afghan refugees' hopes for 'brighter future'"", 'She added of settling into life in the UK: ""The community was very nice and very friendly.', '""They welcomed us and have shown us kindness and they embraced us as a part of their community.', '""I\'m deeply grateful for the opportunity to come to the UK and I\'m sharing my experience as an Afghan immigrant who is integrated into British society."" ', 'Henna painting is among the activities', 'Volunteer Sue Jordan said: ""The women often feel isolated, so we wanted to offer friendship and share cultural experiences.', '""We had fun, laughter and tears. We shared the joy of new babies being born and the sad knowledge of what women and girls continue to experience in Afghanistan.""', 'The exhibition, Celebrating Afghan Women in Newport Pagnell, is open until 16:00 BST.']"
519,"['A floral tribute left at the scene on the A61 Ripon Road', 'A community has rallied around a grieving teenager who lost her siblings and mother in a car crash on the A61.', 'Daria Bartienieva, 35, son Ihor Bartieniev, six, and stepdaughter Anastasiia Bartienieva, 15, died in a collision in South Stainley, Harrogate, on Sunday.', 'All were Ukrainian refugees living in Ripon after arriving in the UK in 2022.', ""A fundraiser has raised more than £14,000 for Ms Bartienieva's daughter, who was not in the car at the time."", 'Sara Hirst, one of the residents behind the crowdfunding page, said locals wanted to help the teenager, who she said was ""part of the Ripon family"".', 'The headteacher at Ihor\'s school said the ""devastating event"" had ""affected everyone within our community""', 'Sue Sanderson said staff and pupils at Holy Trinity Church of England Infant School in Ripon were ""heartbroken"" to learn of the family\'s deaths as they returned for the new term this week.', ""Ihor joined the school's Year 1 class after arriving in the UK from his war-torn home country."", 'Tracey Calland-Booke, his teacher, said he was ""a funny, chatty little boy who was loved by us all"", adding: ""We were all in awe of his little spark of joy who really brought something special to our class.""', 'Ms Sanderson said staff and pupils were ""all now attempting to come to terms with our loss together"" and had visited Holy Trinity Church to light candles for the family.', 'The collision happened on the A61 Ripon Road on 3 September', 'Ms Hirst, landlady of the Black Swan pub in Ripon, thanked ""generous"" locals for their donations to the fundraiser for Ms Bartienieva\'s surviving daughter', 'She told BBC Radio York: ""People are so generous when it comes to helping local people.', '""Even though she is from Ukraine, it makes no difference, she is in Ripon now and part of the Ripon family.""', 'Ms Hirst said a number of charity events were planned to raise further funds for the teenager.', 'North Yorkshire Police is continuing to appeal for information following the collision on the A61 Ripon Road which involved a silver Vauxhall Meriva car, a blue Toyota Aygo car and a double-decker bus.', 'Ms Bartienieva and her children were occupants of the Vauxhall Meriva which had been travelling south towards Ripley shortly before the crash at 14:20 BST.', 'The occupants of the Toyota Aygo were not injured, police said.', 'A spokesperson for The Harrogate Bus Company confirmed one of its number 36 double-decker buses was involved.', 'They said the bus driver, who suffered leg injuries and four passengers who had minor injuries, received hospital treatment and were now recovering at home.', 'The spokesperson added: ""Our first thoughts are with those involved in this accident, particularly those who have sadly lost their lives.""', 'Holy Trinity Church will be open from 14:30 to 16:00 every day this week until Friday to offer pastoral support and prayer.']"
520,"['Ukrainian refugees are to be housed in tented accommodation at the festival site', 'At a glance', ""Work will begin later today to transform the site of Ireland's biggest music festival, Electric Picnic, into an area of tented accommodation for refugees"", ""The Irish government says it will house up to 750 people for the duration of a six-week contract signed with the site's owners"", 'More than 90,000 refugees, the vast majority of which are from Ukraine, have been accommodated in Ireland since early 2021', 'With accommodation options limited, the government says tents will be the primary source of accommodation for people arriving from Ukraine', 'As thousands of music lovers depart the Electric Picnic festival in County Laois, work is set to get under way to transform the site into tented accommodation for refugees.', 'The Irish government has signed a contract for the use of the site at Stradbally, effective from Tuesday.', 'The site will house 750 people for the duration of the six-week contract, the Department of Children, Equality, Disability, Integration and Youth (DCEDIY) has said.', 'The department plans to operate the site at full capacity by Thursday.', 'The Irish government has signed a six-week lease for Stradbally Hall Estate', ""Electric Picnic is Ireland's biggest music festival, with about 70,000 people attending the site over the weekend to see acts such as Billie Eilish, Niall Horan and The Killers."", 'However the site will get a second life over the next several weeks as the Irish government looks for alternative means to house refugees.', 'Since February 2021, the Irish government has accommodated more than 92,400 people seeking refuge.', 'This consists of 69,518 people who have fled the war in Ukraine and 22,700 people seeking international protection.\xa0', '""The summer months have seen an increase in the number of arrivals from Ukraine, with more than 10,000 people fleeing here since 1 May, an average of around 650 people per week,"" a department spokesperson said.', '""It is estimated that up to 500 people could continue to arrive over the next weeks from Ukraine.""', 'About 70,000 people attended the event in County Laois', 'Croke Park, the Aviva Stadium, Dublin Airport and ex-military camps have all been used to house refugees who have arrived in Ireland over the past 12 months.', 'The government has also sourced accommodation from the tourism sector and student housing, but they say those options are at capacity.', '""Due to this significant shortfall, it is expected that, from next week, tented accommodation will be the primary source of accommodation for new arrivals from Ukraine,"" the department said.', '""A small number of new arrivals have already been placed in tents, and this will increase as new locations for tented facilities come on stream. Vulnerable arrivals will be prioritised for any non-tented accommodation available.""', 'Shortage of accommodation for refugees arriving in Ireland', 'Refugees to be housed in Irish military camp', '', 'The site at Stradbally will include provisions for hot meals, on-site access to a paramedic and first aid, hot water and shower and toilet facilities.', 'Electric Picnic is an arts and music festival held in Stradbally Hall Estate, County Laois.', 'Electronic artist Fred Again headlined the festival on Saturday evening', 'It was established as an annual event in 2004 but it could not take place in 2020 and 2021 due to the coronavirus pandemic.']"
521,"['Syed Maqbool Shah lived in a hotel for 14 months while waiting to secure accommodation', 'Afghan refugees in Scotland face a ""grim"" future unless suitable housing is provided for them, a charity has warned.', 'Thursday is the Home Office deadline for Afghans to leave hotels they have been living in following the Taliban takeover of their country in 2021.', 'While some have found homes, the Scottish Refugee Council said others risk being ""forgotten about"".', 'The Home Office said it was working with councils to support the refugees.', 'Cricket helps us feel at home in Borders - refugees', ""Afghan refugee 'physically here but mentally not'"", 'Afghan family flee violence for new life in Lewis', 'About 15,000 people were airlifted to the UK after the Taliban regained power in Afghanistan in August 2021 as part of Operation Pitting. ', 'This included British nationals as well as people who had worked with the UK in Afghanistan and their family members. ', 'Those who had nowhere to live were placed in hotels, including sites in Aberdeen, Fife and Edinburgh.', 'The Home Office said this was intended to be temporary accommodation, but by the end of March there were still about 8,800 Afghans living in hotels in the UK. ', 'Earlier this year the Home Office started issuing notices to quit, with a deadline of 31 August for Afghans to leave the hotels. ', 'While some have now found accommodation, concerns have been raised over those who are still struggling to find homes, including in Scotland.', 'About 15,000 people were evacuated to the UK following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan', 'Syed Maqbool Shah worked as an interpreter in Afghanistan before fleeing to Pakistan in October 2021 to escape the Taliban. ', 'The 42-year-old has lived in a hotel in Edinburgh with his family for the past 14 months. He is moving into a hotel in Glenrothes while accommodation for his family in Rosyth is furnished. ', 'He told BBC Scotland he was ""grateful"" for help from Edinburgh Council but described living in a hotel as a ""horrible life"".', '""It\'s really difficult to stay in a hotel,"" he said. ', '""It\'s really hard and really bad, because our people aren\'t educated too much. Because we have come here and can\'t speak English, our people.', '""And they can\'t go to the local authority or find a property dealer for them to find their own property. It\'s really hard for them and they can\'t manage that. They can\'t.""', 'Although his daughters had missed out on two years of schooling, they have become fond of their new home, he added.', '""My girls are happy, they like their country, they love this country. There is a future for this country, not for our country.""', 'Asylum seekers to be put in hotels across Scotland', 'Asylum seekers and refugees may have to share rooms', 'Sabir Zazai, the chief executive of the Scottish Refugee Council, said it was unacceptable for Afghans to have been living in hotels for more than two years. ', 'He said he feared many now faced an uncertain and potentially ""grim"" future, and called for a ""dignified"" community-based integration approach centred on human rights.', '""The journey of integration for those people has not started - you cannot start developing a sense of belonging in the back of a hotel room,"" Mr Zazai told BBC Scotland News.', 'The Scottish Refugee Council  has also campaigned for an end to what it says is a ""cruel"" UK government policy potentially requiring refugees and asylum seekers to share hotel rooms.', 'A recent report by Aberdeen Health and Social Care Partnership said there were currently 503 refugees and asylum seekers locally, with the numbers increasing ""week on week"". ', 'It said it anticipated this would continue until all hotels in the city were full and that there was an ongoing discussion with the Home Office about room sharing. ', 'Mr Zazai called for the UK government to focus on clearing the backlog of asylum cases and urged Humza Yousaf to take action in Scotland. ', 'He added: ""We also urge the first minister to personally intervene now and instruct his government to identify and pursue all legal and policy options to stop this inhumane forced bedroom sharing happening in Scotland.', '""This is not in line with who we are, this is not in line with Scotland\'s tradition of fair and inclusive society.""', 'Aberdeen City Council said it was supporting 18 Afghan households to find a home and that more than half had secured accommodation.', 'Fife Council said it had hosted 205 people in a bridging hotel since September 2021. ', 'A spokesperson told BBC Scotland two families were still looking for homes; one had interim accommodation, while the other had now been allocated accommodation and would remain in the hotel until it was ready.', 'City of Edinburgh Council said its teams were working with 241 Afghans. The local authority said 34 people remained in hotel accommodation, but all had confirmed onward accommodation and they were due to leave the hotels this week.', 'The Scottish government said Afghan families had been welcomed by local authorities across Scotland and were being supported to access services and integrate into communities.', '""We continue to engage with the UK government to ensure that Afghan families can be matched with property offers made by local authorities as soon as possible,"" a spokesperson said.', '""However, it is not acceptable that as a result of the upcoming hotel closures programme, families could be evicted from government provided accommodation into homelessness.""', 'The Scottish government agreed that room sharing ""adds risk and stress for people at an already turbulent time"" and called for the UK government to improve the efficiency of the asylum system. ', 'A Home Office spokesperson said a total of 10,500 Afghans had been provided with homes. ', '""We have worked closely with local authorities and NGOs on the hotel departures, and we are all in agreement this is the right thing to do for the taxpayer, and for Afghans,"" a spokesperson said.']"
522,"['Kristina Bondarenko (centre) began teaching herself Irish dancing six years ago', 'At a glance', 'Ukrainian refugees have taken part in a Riverdance workshop', ""Professional dancers Jason O'Neill from Belfast and Emma Mannion from Roscommon visited a dance class in Rathmines Ukrainian Community Centre on Wednesday"", 'Riverdance first appeared during the 1994 Eurovision interval in Dublin', 'The act, which lasted seven minutes, instantly catapulted choreographer and dancer Michael Flately to international fame', 'Ukrainian refugees, who have developed a love for Irish dancing, have been treated to a workshop from members of the Riverdance cast in Dublin.', ""Professional dancers Jason O'Neill from Belfast and Emma Mannion from Roscommon visited a weekly dance class in Rathmines Ukrainian Community Centre on Wednesday."", 'Kristina Bondarenko, aged 17, began teaching herself Irish dancing six years ago using online videos.', 'The schoolgirl, who is originally from Odesa, moved to Ireland with her mother following the outbreak of war last year.', 'The Riverdance stars dropped in to pass on some tips', '""It was so unexpected, it was really exciting. It was so, so nice,"" said Kristina.', '""We were delighted to see real professionals, real Riverdance dancers, it was so good.""', ""The teenager, who attends St Joseph's College in Lucan, aspires to become a professional Irish dancer herself and trains for one hour every day."", '""In Ukraine I see Riverdance only on TV or the internet but I have seen the Riverdance performance three times in Ireland, so I was delighted to see them, it was so brilliant.""', ""Michael 'Lord Of The Dance' Flately choreographed the first Riverdance production"", 'Riverdance first appeared during the 1994 Eurovision interval in Dublin.', 'The act, which lasted seven minutes, instantly catapulted choreographer and dancer Michael Flately to international fame.', ""Its success at Eurovision saw it extended into a full-length show, which opened at Dublin's Point Theatre the following year."", 'Kristina said she would like to become a professional Irish dancer herself', ""Mr O'Neill and Ms Mannion are part of the troupe starring in a 25th anniversary show at the Gaiety Theatre in Dublin.""]"
523,"['Modina Khatun says gang violence has turned her life into a nightmare', ""Sounds of gunfire keep Modina Khatun awake every night in Cox's Bazaar Bangladesh - the world's largest refugee camp. "", 'She fears that spiralling gang violence there will make a widow of another Rohingya woman like herself, with young children to feed.', ""Ms Khatun's husband, Bashir Ullah, became a grim statistic last June when he was shot dead after getting caught in the crossfire of two gangs at Cox's Bazar in south-east Bangladesh. That night, he volunteered to patrol the sprawling camp that the Rohingyas have called home for six years now."", ""Drug smuggling and human trafficking gangs have turned life at Cox's Bazar into a nightmare for the close to one million ethnic minority Rohingyas, many of whom crossed into Bangladesh from Myanmar in 2017 to escape a military crackdown. Forty-eight people have died in gang violence as of mid-July, exceeding the 40 fatalities for all of 2022."", ""The violence complicates the plight of the Rohingyas. Their return to Myanmar is uncertain while their host, Bangladesh considers them a burden. Squalid conditions in Cox's Bazar have also made them vulnerable to disasters, like massive fires and typhoons."", 'Those feelings of frustration and helplessness are being exploited by various armed groups such as the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army (ARSA), the Rohingya Solidarity Organisation (RSO) and the Munna Gang.', '""We fled from the Myanmar military to save our lives. I hardly imagined that my husband would be killed in our camp by another Rohingya,"" Ms Khatun, 31, told the BBC.', '""I cannot sleep at night. We want to leave the camp. I don\'t know what the future holds for me and my sons,"" she added. ', ""Mohammed Mizanur Rahman, a senior official in charge of Bangladesh's Refugee Relief and Repatriation commission said drug peddlers were using Rohingya as carriers to smuggle drugs from Myanmar into Bangladesh."", '""There are a million people without any opportunities. That creates space for criminals. They are violent and need to be held to account,"" Meenakshi Ganguly, deputy Asia Director at Human Rights Watch told the BBC.', ""Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh is considered the world's largest refugee camp"", ' Mohib Ullah, a prominent Rohingya rights leader is among the victims of the spiralling violence. He was shot dead while speaking to a refugee gathering in September 2021. The groups are also accused of abducting people for ransom, as well as forced marriage and child recruitment.', 'One of their former captives, who asked to be identified only as Nur, told the BBC that he had been tortured while being held in a forest area near the border town of Teknaf for four days.', '""I was made to stand in a stream day and night and was constantly beaten with wires and sticks. I thought I won\'t make it,"" said the 21-year-old who now lives in a south-east Asian capital.', 'Nur said the ARSA militants demanded a ransom of $18,000 (£14,126) for his release, but his parents raised only about $2300. He managed to escape after the group asked for the remainder of the ransom. A spokesman for ARSA did not respond to a request for comment.', ""Widows of spiralling violence in Cox's Bazar are left with young kids to raise alone"", 'Bangladeshi authorities say their worries of deteriorating security in the Rohingya areas are becoming a reality.', 'The UN and aid agencies find themselves stretched for resources to provide for the Rohingyas as international attention shifts to the war in Ukraine. Monthly food vouchers have been cut to $8 from $12 per person.', 'Bangladesh says it has deployed more than 2,000 personnel from the Armed Police Battalion to secure refugee camps. But the only solution to stop the violence, authorities say, is to repatriate the Rohingyas back to Myanmar.', 'Myanmar and Bangladesh agreed on a possible repatriation of refugees in 2017 but there has been little progress.', 'In recent months, Myanmar has shown some interest in taking back some refugees, if not all, following a China-backed initiative. More than 1,000 Rohingya have been shortlisted to be sent back in a pilot project.', ""Gang violence has added to Rohingya refugees' woes"", 'But the Rohingyas are not happy with this. ', '""Unless our safety and security are guaranteed, unless we are allowed to go back to our villages, we are not keen on repatriation,"" says a Rohingya activist who did not want to be identified.', 'With their fate uncertain, dozens of Rohingya are taking perilous high seas journeys via seas aboard rickety boats to escape to Indonesia and Malaysia, often paying huge sum to human traffickers. Dozens drown every year attempting the sea crossing.', 'Six years after reaping worldwide praise for accepting Rohingya refugees, Bangladesh now faces a huge dilemma.', ""With foreign aid dwindling, Dhaka says it's spending more of its own resources to manage the camps. At the same time, the worsening security situation is triggering alarm."", 'And widows of the violence, like Ms Khatun, continue to live a nightmare.']"
524,"['Katya Manokhina, 21, has been staying with host Jill Hanna in Leominster for the past four months', 'At a glance', 'To date, 716 people have been accommodated in Herefordshire through the Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme', 'Support groups say more homes are needed to help those fleeing the war-torn country', 'Jill Hanna, who has so far hosted Ukrainians on three occasions, said she had found it ""really worthwhile""', 'A fresh appeal has been made for people in Herefordshire to host Ukrainian refugees.', 'So far, 716 Ukrainians fleeing the war-torn nation have been accommodated in the county through the Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, which offers guests a UK visa and housing with local residents.', 'While about 100 have now left Herefordshire, scheme organisers say hosts are needed for a fresh wave of arrivals as bombing in Ukraine continues.', 'Across the wider West Midlands, 7,220 Ukrainians have been sponsored and sheltered. ', 'Herefordshire, combined with neighbouring Malvern Hills, has taken in the most refugees per person than any other part of the region.', '""My parents grew up with German Jewish refugees. When the war [in Ukraine] broke out, I applied [to help],"" said Jill Hanna, a host in Leominster.', '""I thought that this was something I could do. There have been lots of high points.', '""If you\'ve got a spare bedroom, and maybe a spare bathroom helps too, it\'s really worthwhile.""', 'After first hosting a family-of-three last July, Ms Hanna is now on her third sponsorship, with 21-year-old student Katya Manokhina. ', 'Having spent a year in Herefordshire, Katya Manokhina is returning to Ukraine to study engineering in Kyiv', '""I\'ve had an amazing time with Jill,"" Ms Manokhina said. ""I now feel like England is my second home.""', ""This Sunday, she will return to Ukraine's capital Kyiv to start an engineering degree. "", '""I want to help with the reconstruction of my own country,"" she said.', '""I\'ve spent the last year being in a safe place. I want to help my people.""', 'Sunday will also be the first time in nine months that Ms Manokhina has seen her mother.', 'But as she returns, help continues to be needed.', 'Diocese of Hereford coordinator Lesley Grady says the sponsorship scheme has been a big success in the county', '""We desperately do need more hosts,"" said Lesley Grady, a coordinator for the Diocese of Hereford, which has been involved in supporting hosts and matching them with Ukrainian guests.', '""The bombing has intensified in Ukraine, covering more of the west. So now, where people have escaped, they no longer feel safe there and need another safe haven.""']"
525,"['Thousands of people have fled to the UK', 'Asylum seekers and refugees could have to share rooms in Aberdeen hotels.', 'A report said the number of people arriving would keep rising until all hotels which provide such accommodation are full. ', 'Aberdeen Health and Social Care Partnership said there were 503 refugees and asylum seekers locally.', 'The Home Office has said that to reduce hotel use, asylum seekers may ""routinely share rooms with at least one person where appropriate"".', 'Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said earlier this year that room sharing would increase capacity and drive down costs. ', 'But the proposal is controversial, with the Scottish government raising concerns about the plans. ', 'Perth and North Perthshire MP Pete Wishart has said no refugee should be forced to share a room in a hotel against their will.', 'Aberdeen Health and Social Care Partnership said the Home Office was conducting an ongoing discussion on room sharing.', 'Fair for asylum seekers to share rooms - Jenrick', ""Aberdeen's Integration Joint Board discussed the potential doubling up of refugees and asylum seekers in hotel rooms in a meeting on Tuesday."", 'Lib Dem councillor Martin Greig raised the issue, asking if the scheme would provide an appropriate level of care.', 'In response, council officers said they had had no answer on how the scheme would work in practice in the city. ', 'The Scottish government said room sharing would add risk and stress for people at an already turbulent time.', ""The SNP's Mr Wishart visited two hotels housing asylum seekers in his Perth and North Perthshire constituency last week and said there was insufficient space."", 'He said: ""What was abundantly clear was that the size of the accommodation is insufficient and that other solutions would be required.', '""Any increase in numbers has to take into account these people\'s vulnerable circumstances, with no-one forced to share against their will.""', 'The Home Office said: ""Despite the number of people arriving in the UK reaching record levels, we continue to provide accommodation for asylum seekers who would otherwise be destitute to meet our legal obligation.', '""To reduce hotel use, asylum seekers will routinely share rooms with at least one person where appropriate.', '""This will minimise the impact on communities while we stand up alternative sites.""']"
526,"['Olha Son said her paintings partly showed the impact of the war in Ukraine', 'A Ukrainian artist who paints family portraits for refugees to give to UK hosts is ""immortalising"" Britons\' generosity, she says. ', ""Olha Son, who went to Cornwall when she arrived in the UK, was asked for paintings to thank people's hosts. "", ""The 35-year-old's art shows Britons sheltering Ukrainian refugees with a Union flag-decorated umbrella. "", 'She also said she felt she was ""doing something important"", partly showing the impact of the war in Ukraine.', 'Ms Son said she started painting five years ago when she was diagnosed with depression and initially painted still-life images, before receiving a message from a fellow Ukrainian refugee asking for a gift for their host family. ', 'She brainstormed ideas for the painting, which was ""easy"" because she ""was in an identical situation as my customer and I knew what it feels like to feel what they feel"". ', 'Since then, she has had commissions from other refugees who wanted to thank their hosts.', 'She said: ""It\'s like immortalising this phenomena of a British family who made a decision to open their doors to strangers from a different country, a different culture, in order to help in such a devastating situation as the war.""', 'One couple who received a painting from the Ukrainian family living with them for some months was Kevin Kennedy Ryan, 33, and Jessica Ryan Smith 32, from Sheffield. ', 'The couple gave them a painting showing their two families, painted by Ms Son, which Mr Kennedy Ryan said left them ""speechless"" and ""drove home some of the reality of the situation"". ', 'The British couple offered their home to refugees before Russia invaded Ukraine and said: ""It\'s not necessarily about refugees from Ukraine or any one particular area. ', '""We all have this humanity that we share together.""']"
527,"['The homes are on the new Woodland Rise estate in Langtoft', 'A council leader has defended plans to buy 12 homes in a Lincolnshire village to house refugees.', 'The properties in Langtoft, near Market Deeping, cost £1.8m and will be jointly paid for by the government and South Kesteven District Council.', 'Some in the area have questioned the decision to house 12 families in a village of just over 500.', 'Council leader Richard Cleaver said the refugees housed at the development would work and pay rent.', 'Independent Mr Cleaver, who took over as leader in May, said it had been an ""obvious thing"" to accept the deal to purchase the homes.', '""In terms of value for taxpayer money, there is no way we could turn down an offer like that,"" he said.', 'Under the agreement, the council has secured the 12 homes on the Woodland Rise estate off Stowe Road, which had been earmarked as affordable housing,', 'It includes six two-bedroom houses, two two-bedroom bungalows, and four three-bedroom houses.', 'They will be used as temporary accommodation for Afghan and Ukrainian families who have arrived legally in the UK, the council said.', ""Afterwards they will be added to the council's social housing stock."", 'Council leader Richard Cleaver said the homes would be occupied by those who had come to the UK legally', 'Some residents in Langtoft expressed concerns to the Local Democracy Reporting Service about the lack of local amenities, suggesting a town would be a better option for refugees than a small village.', 'Calvin Allen admitted he had reservations: ""I suppose they\'ve got to live somewhere, but nobody wants them on their doorstep.""', 'Meanwhile, Mick Greenwood said his concern was the number of families: ""I totally agree with the council, but I think it\'s too many families.""', 'While on a visit to the site, Mr Cleaver said those being housed were not just single men, but would include mothers and children.', 'He stressed they would be charged rent and intended to work.', '""These are not refugees that will be living at home all day, twiddling their thumbs,"" he said.', 'Mr Cleaver stated the funding for the project did not come from council tax.', '""Everything to do with council housing is completely separate from everything else we do.\xa0We already had that money in the pot,"" he said.', '""Council tax cannot subsidise council housing, that is illegal.""']"
528,"['Andrii (right) paid tribute to Gillian and Stuart Durrant, who have hosted his family', 'A teenager who fled his home in Ukraine has passed his A-levels a year early. ', 'Andrii came to the UK with his mother and sister in June 2022, aged 16, and stayed with a family in Newbury.', 'He attended Trinity School and jumped a year to complete A-levels in maths, computer science and business studies in English - his third language. ', 'Andrii is celebrating with his father back in Ukraine before he turns 18, as he will not be able to leave if he visits again after his birthday.', 'His father has been fighting in the war and it is the first time since fleeing their home that Andrii, his mother and sister have seen him. ', 'They left Chernihiv, close to the Belarussian border, and stayed with an acquaintance in central Ukraine for 10 weeks as they waited for permits to be able to enter the UK. ', 'They then moved in with Gillian Durrant and her husband Stuart, who live in Newbury, where they have lived for the past 14 months.', 'Andrii said studying for his exams felt like ""a sense of relief"" because it helped him feel ""less stressed"" not thinking about the war. ', 'He explained: ""I wasn\'t thinking about all the horrible things that are happening in Ukraine. I don\'t think it\'s really a good feeling to just think every day, hour, minute about the war.""', 'Andrii said he was ""really grateful"" to Mrs Durrant, adding: ""I can\'t tell you how many things Gillian has done for us."" ', 'Andrii came to the country with his sister and mother, while is father stayed to fight in Ukraine', 'Mrs Durrant said Andrii worked ""incredibly hard"" and had completed a two-year course in one year so he could complete his A-levels this summer. ', 'Andrii received an A in maths, B in computer science and a B in business studies and is now considering going to university in England.', 'Ukrainian military law states applicants of higher education, external studying full-time are exempt from signing up for national service, which is why Andrii expects this to be his last trip to his home country for some time, unless he starts university. ', 'He said: ""I do feel proud, two years ago I didn\'t really think I would have such an opportunity to attend any university and I\'m really grateful.""']"
529,"['Abdulrahman Zakaria, originally from Syria, moved to Warwickshire with his family last June', 'A refugee who fled Syria has spoken of the support from the local community after resettling in Warwickshire.', 'Since arriving with his family in June 2022, Abdulrahman Zakaria said local residents had helped arrange schooling and healthcare, as well as supporting him to set up his own IT business.', 'He said they had also helped him and his family improve their English.', '""They make the hard things easier,"" he said, adding that his neighbours had also been ""very friendly"".', '""Here when we came, we feel like we are very safe,"" he added.', 'Across the UK, more than 1,000 refugees have been supported by community sponsorship, which involves local groups directly helping people to resettle.', 'Immigration Minister Robert Jenrick said the scheme, which opened in 2016, had offered the ""best prospect"" of integration. ', 'He said the UK was one of a ""few countries"" that allowed local communities to help settle those ""directly at risk in conflict zones"" around the world.', 'Julia Fitzsimons, from Warwickshire Circle of Friends, said the group had helped the family to integrate', 'Mr Zakaria had spent the previous 10 years living in Egypt while waiting for resettlement in the UK, having been referred by the UN Refugee Agency.', 'He described how the family had escaped from the war in Syria to find a ""good life"".', 'Under the Home office scheme, eligible refugees are assessed for their need for resettlement, external, before being matched with sponsor groups.', 'Community groups are also asked to raise £9,000, external to support resettlement and integration needs.', 'Julia Fitzsimons and other members of community group Warwickshire Circle of Friends have been supporting Mr Zakaria since his arrival.', '""We found the house and provided the furnishing for that,"" she said.', '""We can link them with the school, we\'ve helped them to work out how to go to the doctors, the shops - so we are friends here, but also good neighbours.""']"
530,"['The man was seen in a concrete channel beside the main part of the river in Derby', 'A man has been saved from drowning by a stranger who found him face down in a river in Derby. ', 'It has emerged the rescuer was an Afghan soldier who fled the Taliban and is now claiming asylum. ', ""Muhammed climbed a security fence after seeing the man in a hydro-electric channel beside the River Derwent at the city's River Gardens on Friday."", 'A local charity has described Muhammed, who fought alongside international forces, as a hero.', 'Muhammed, who does not speak English, does not want to be identified due to security concerns.', 'As he was not working for UK forces, he did not qualify for a British refugee visa and came to Britain in a small boat.', 'He said of the rescue: ""Because his life was in danger, I felt sorry about him when I saw him, and I didn\'t realise how I saved him. ', '""I felt really happy that I saved a person\'s life and saved him from danger.""', 'The rescuers had to climb over security fences to get the man to safety', 'He added: ""When I took him out of water I had a very happy feeling.', '""I\'m happy that he\'s fine. I hope I can see him in person again, I know he is fine but would be good to see him in person and make sure he\'s alright.""', 'Other asylum seekers who were present carried the man to paramedics.', 'The rescue has been publicised by a Derby charity supporting Muhammed while he waits to hear if he will get permission to settle and work in the UK. ', 'Muhammed fought against the Taliban and now fears reprisals if sent back', 'Steve Cooke, chair of Derbyshire Refugee Solidarity, said: ""When something dramatic happens you need someone to actually do something quickly, which is what he did. ', '""He was a hero as well and very brave because he was in one of the most dangerous parts of the river, in the hydro-electric weir at the side of the river, so it\'s incredibly dangerous, but he went in and started to pull the guy out and then other asylum seekers also came to help him.', '""We wanted to show everyone that asylum seekers are normal human beings who will respond when someone is in need.""', 'An ambulance crew took the rescued man to the Royal Derby Hospital and police said he had not suffered serious injuries. ']"
531,"['Telford and Wrekin Council has now helped all refugees in the borough into permanent accommodation', 'Permanent accommodation has been provided to 325 Afghan refugees, a council said.', 'Telford and Wrekin Council said all bridging hotels will close on Friday after the refugees were given permanent accommodation.', 'The Home Office has given until the end of August for refugees to leave bridging hotels.', 'Cllr Kelly Middleton said the authority had worked hard to offer the accommodation.', 'Last month, council leader and chair of the Local Government Association (LGA), Shaun Davies, said there was a risk of Afghan families becoming homeless and ending up in temporary accommodation due to a housing shortage.', 'Hotels were not meant to be long-term accommodation for Afghans who fled the Taliban in 2021 and they should not be in them ""for months or years on end"",  a government spokesperson said.', 'In Shropshire, the council said despite the county not having any bridging hotels, they received ""allocated capital grant funding from government to acquire up to 13 dwellings by the end of March 2024"".', '""We hope this funding will help these families to settle in Shropshire, while creating more homes for future needs, and enable these people fleeing conflicts to continue integrating into their communities through work and everyday life here in Shropshire,"" Dean Carroll, cabinet member for housing, added.']"
532,"['Many Afghan refugees have been ""let down"" by the UK, with some living in hotels for up to two years and now facing eviction, a think tank has said. ', 'More in Common said lessons needed to be learned so future refugees were better supported.', ""It comes on the anniversary of the UK's evacuation programme and the fall of Kabul to the Taliban on 15 August 2021. "", 'Minister Johnny Mercer admitted there had been ""challenges"" but said he was determined to make Afghan schemes work.', 'Operation Pitting saw the UK airlift around 15,000 people out of Kabul - including British nationals, as well as people who worked with the UK in Afghanistan and their family members. ', 'Those who had nowhere to live were placed in government-funded hotels. This was supposed to be temporary accommodation but by the end of March, there were still around 8,800 Afghans living in hotels. ', 'The government has imposed a deadline of the end of August for Afghans to be moved out of hotels, but councils have warned some are facing homelessness as they cannot find anywhere else to live. ', 'More In Common, an organisation founded in the wake of the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox, surveyed 132 Afghans in the UK.', 'It was told of failures in communication with local authorities and the Home Office on housing, rental applications being repeatedly rejected, and unsuitable homes being offered, sometimes hundreds of miles away.', 'One example saw a refugee living in temporary accommodation in Bristol, where they had family, offered permanent housing in Northern Ireland. ', 'How many Afghan refugees has the UK resettled?', ""'I've spent two years living in a hotel' - refugee"", 'Amir Hussain Ibrahimi was evacuated from Afghanistan by the UK two years ago and has been living in a hotel in Southend-on-Sea, Essex, ever since. ', 'The 24-year-old, who was a journalist and photographer in Afghanistan, said he was forced to leave his family behind after he was arrested and attacked by the Taliban.', '""The first days when I was in the hotel we had a lot of promises - the government told us that you\'re going to stay three months or four months or five months,"" he told BBC News.', '""It is quite hard because you don\'t know what is the next step for your life.""', '""Sometimes you want to feel a place is like a home,"" he said, adding that he had felt depressed at times since coming to the UK. ', 'Mr Ibrahimi said he was relieved the council had finally found him a permanent home, after being rejected by more than 10 landlords. He is now waiting to see if this landlord will accept him as a tenant.', 'However, he said he knew many other families who had not managed to find homes. ', 'Mr Ibrahimi acknowledged there were challenges as other Afghans did not have experience working in the UK and often had large families. However, he said the government needed to do more to help. ', 'Amir Hussain Ibrahimi now works as a marketing and production assistant in east London', 'Cabinet Office minister Mr Mercer, who served in Afghanistan during his time in the military and is responsible for the resettlement scheme, acknowledged ""things could always have been done differently"" and that Afghan families had been in hotels ""for far too long"". ', 'He told the PA news agency the deadline for people to leave hotels by the end of August had been ""a controversial move"" but it was done ""with compassion in mind"". ', 'He said 440 Afghans had been matched to homes in the past week ""and I couldn\'t have generated that momentum without putting that hard deadline in there"".', 'The government said it had provided £285m of funding to help move Afghans into permanent homes, with more than 10,500 people moved from hotels to long-term accommodation so far. ', 'A spokesperson for the Local Government Association said councils had worked ""incredibly hard"" to support Afghan families but had faced challenges including a shortage of housing. ', 'It accepted there were lessons to be learned but blamed a ""delay in funding and guidance from government for creating a lot of uncertainty"". ', ""Sir Laurie Bristow, who was the UK's ambassador to Afghanistan when Kabul fell to the Taliban, said Britain has a responsibility to those who worked for the UK there. "", '""There are people in Afghanistan and in refugee camps who worked for us and worked with us and whose lives are in danger as a result of doing so,"" he told Radio 4\'s Today programme. ', 'As debate continues over whether countries should engage with the Taliban, Sir Laurie said that doing so effectively could help to address reasons why Afghans were leaving the country for the UK. ', 'Operation Pitting saw around 15,000 people evacuated from Kabul', 'Meanwhile, charities have criticised resettlement schemes for being too slow and leaving many people who want to come to the UK stuck in Afghanistan. ', 'Since the original evacuation, the numbers arriving under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme (ACRS) have been low, with only 40 refugees who have fled Afghanistan to neighbouring countries being resettled in the UK up to the end of March, while only 14 members of at-risk groups have been resettled directly from Afghanistan. ', 'A further 9,059 people, who arrived in the UK under Operation Pitting, have also been resettled under the ACRS, while 11,398 have been brought to the UK under a scheme for Afghans who worked for or with the UK government.', 'In the meantime others have taken dangerous routes like crossing the Channel in small boats, with Afghan the most common nationality recorded among those arriving this way so far this year.', 'Human rights organisation Justice said the schemes had been marked by ""significant delays, lack of transparency and lack of consistency"". ', 'It called for quicker processing times and better communication with applicants. ', 'Mr Mercer acknowledged some people had been left behind after the Taliban takeover and had still not been brought to safety. ', 'However, he said he was determined to make resettlement schemes ""work properly"" and that the UK should be ""proud"" of its efforts to rescue people. ', 'A Home Office spokesperson said the UK had made ""one of the largest commitments of any country to support Afghanistan"" and there was ""no need for Afghans to risk their lives by taking dangerous and illegal journeys"". ']"
533,"['Kseniia from Lviv was reunited with her grandmother, aunt and uncle in June.', '""You can\'t imagine this moment until it actually happens,"" Kseniia, a refugee living in Berkshire, tells the BBC what it felt like to return to Ukraine.', 'This summer is seeing some Ukrainian refugees visiting home for the first time since fleeing the country.', 'Many are feeling helpless and homesick, and are now spending short amounts of time at home, despite the risk.', ""Kseniia's cousin - a helicopter pilot - was killed during a military operation last July"", 'Nataly, Kseniia and Oksana, who are living in Berkshire, are amongst those paying visits to their homeland.', '""You just see your family and you start to cry"", Kseniia, who went to Lviv in June says.', 'She describes feeling ""like a guest"" in the city because she could not visit her her hometown of Slavyansk as its only 40 miles from the frontline. ', '""[In Ukraine] restaurants [and] shops are working, people are going on holiday [but] at any moment we can get a red alert and the shelling can start,"" Kseniia says.', '""I compare it to an abusive relationship. ...you leave it behind [...], you remain stronger, but at the same time you could happily live without this experience.""', 'She says she hopes in the future people will visit her country not because of the conflict but because it is ""really beautiful"" and ""there are lots of things to try"". ', 'Nataly is currently back in Lviv with her son and brother', 'Nataly, who lives in Newbury, Berkshire, is now in Lviv for the first time since she escaped to England.', 'She is ""just happy to be home"" with her son and brother, even though going back was ""a difficult decision"" due to safety.', '""No matter where, we... are following the news,"" she says.', '""You don\'t feel balanced, you feel either really happy or quite sad once you remember what\'s going on and how many people have been killed.""', ""Oksana and her children's long journey was worth it when they were reunited at home"", 'Nataly says that despite the good weather back in Ukraine, spirits are low.', '""Even though there are a lot of people around, when you look into the eyes of people, you can see sadness and anxiety,"" she adds.', 'In July, Oksana and her children travelled back from Sandhurst, Berkshire, to Ukraine.', 'They took a long train journey through Poland and over the border but were excited and relieved to reunite with their husband and father.']"
534,"['About 40 refugees remain at a hotel in Scarborough', 'A group working with Afghan refugees has urged the Home Office to halt moves to force them to leave a hotel in Scarborough.', 'About 40 refugees are due to leave the hotel by 16 August.', 'The\xa0Refugee Council said many of those people were being put at risk of\xa0""being left homeless and destitute"".', 'The Home Office said hotels were not a long-term solution for refugees and it had worked with councils on hotel departures.', 'Those working with the refugee families said it remained unclear how many would still be living at the hotel on Wednesday.', 'The Home Office issued the refugees with ""legalistic, untranslated eviction notices"" in May, the group said.', '""The eviction of Afghan families from hotels is very concerning as it puts them at risk of\xa0being left homeless and destitute on our streets,"" a spokesperson for the Refugee Council said.', '""This is not how those who fled the Taliban and were promised a warm welcome in the UK should be treated.""', 'They urged the government to ""halt evictions until accommodation is secured"" for Afghans still in hotels.', 'Thousands have fled Afghanistan since the Taliban took power in April 2021', 'North Yorkshire Council has made homelessness referrals for several families at the hotel and others are waiting to hear back from councils elsewhere or are planning to present as homeless in other parts of the country.', 'The situation has improved since May when there were about 90 refugees still at the hotel, the Refugee Council said.', 'This was due to working with a range of organisations to secure rental properties and jobs for a large number of families and the government has also provided each refugee with £7,000 to fund accommodation.', ""North Yorkshire Council's corporate director of community development Nic Harne said they wanted to reassure people that they would provide temporary accommodation as required for any refugees left homeless when the hotel closes."", 'A Home Office spokeswoman said hotels were never designed to be used as long-term accommodation for Afghans resettled in the UK.', '""We have worked closely with local authorities and NGOs on the hotel departures and we are all in agreement this is the right thing to do for the taxpayer and for Afghans,"" she said.', 'She added that the Home Office was providing extensive support, backed by £285m in new funding, to ""speed up the resettlement of Afghans"" into permanent accommodation.']"
535,"['Eleven families staying in Chelmsford were not found alternative homes in the city', 'About 400 Afghan refugees are leaving temporary hotel accommodation in Essex this week, the BBC has been told.', 'The families are being moved to a mixture of permanent and temporary housing, although some are having their hotel stays extended.', 'Colchester City Council said one household was rehoused 500 miles away in Inverness and others in Norfolk, Oxford and the north of England.', 'The Home Office said it was not in their ""best interests"" to be in hotels.', 'The refugees were given settled status in the UK under schemes introduced after the Taliban takeover, external in Afghanistan in 2021.', 'Naqeeb Khilji and his son left their hotel room in Chelmsford', ""The BBC visited Mr Khilji's Chelmsford hotel room in June"", 'The government started warning councils in April the hotel accommodation would be withdrawn.', '""To move people on has been a challenge for the Afghan refugees and their children,"" said Colchester council\'s Liberal Democrat leader David King.', '""It\'s a difficult place to be but it\'s much better than when we got the notice three months ago.""', 'Colchester Liberal Democrat council leader David King said the process had been ""emotional"" for the refugees', 'This video can not be played', 'Chelmsford\'s council leader said the government had ""let [Afghans] down""', 'More than 24,000 Afghans were relocated between August 2021 and December 2022, many of whom worked for the Ministry of Defence.', 'The government said 10,500 of them had so far been given homes.', 'In Essex:', 'Families have been moved from four hotels in recent days in Colchester, Chelmsford, Southend and Harlow', 'Four households in Colchester were found homes within the borough, the council said, but others were relocated elsewhere, including seven in Norfolk and one in Inverness', 'Seven households in Colchester are technically homeless and still in a hotel', 'None of the families in Chelmsford have been found homes within the city and instead moved to Harlow, Watford and Peterborough', 'Chelmsford City Council\'s Liberal Democrat leader Stephen Robinson earlier this month said the government had ""let [Afghans] down"" because of ""unsatisfactory"" accommodation', 'All 11 households in Harlow were moved from their hotel', 'Refugees were leaving a Southend hotel on Tuesday', 'Mr King said trying to rehome the Afghan families in Colchester had contributed to an £800,000 overspend in the council housing budget.', 'However, a government spokesperson said councils were being given £7,000 for every Afghan being moved out of hotels.', '""Hotels are not, and were never designed to be, long-term accommodation for Afghans resettled in the UK and it is not in their best interests to be living in hotel accommodation for months or years on end,"" added the spokesperson.']"
536,"['Reverend David Haslam described the ""rapid removal"" of refugees as ""quite shocking""', 'Authorities have been accused of ""treating people like cattle"" after asylum seekers were on Monday given 48 hours\' notice of relocation.', 'Thirty refugees in a hotel in Evesham were told by housing provider Serco they were being moved.', ""Campaign group Evesham Vale Welcomes Refugees (EVWR) said the hotel's residents wanted to remain in the town."", 'Serco has been approached by the BBC for comment.', 'A spokesperson for the Home Office said individuals may be moved to other locations in line with Allocation of Accommodation guidance.', '""The Home Office continues to provide safe accommodation for asylum seekers who would otherwise be destitute, as we work to end the use of hotels which are costing UK taxpayers almost £6m a day,"" they added.', 'An asylum seeker given notice of relocation said people were happy at the hotel', 'Vice chairman of EVWR, Reverend David Haslam, from Evesham Methodist Church, said the ""rapid removal"" of refugees was ""quite shocking"".', '""We are absolutely appalled,"" he said.', '""I mean this is treating people like cattle and it\'s so unnecessary because it\'s a very well-functioning hotel, we\'ve got a mixture of families and single men, they all get on.""', 'The individuals, some from Afghanistan and Iran, had spent between six and 18 months living in the hotel and had been attending English classes.', 'One asylum seeker, who said he was being relocated to Worcester, told the BBC that people were ""happy"" at the hotel.', 'Having already been moved four times, he said EVWR had helped him with college and healthcare, adding that moving to Worcester would mean he would be ""too far"" from where he studied.', '""I don\'t want to move from here,"" he said. ""They are moving us to Worcester - I think it is far from the city, it\'s on the motorway and you have to walk 40 minutes to the city.""']"
537,"['The twelve houses will later being used as social housing in the village', 'Twelve houses have been bought by a Lincolnshire council to provide homes for families fleeing war zones.', 'The properties in Langtoft, near Market Deeping, cost £1.8m and will be jointly paid for by the government and South Kesteven District Council.', 'They will be used as temporary accommodation for Afghan and Ukrainian families who have arrived legally in the UK, the council said.', ""Afterwards they will be added to the council's social housing stock."", 'The homes are the first of a total of 21 earmarked for the scheme in the area and are a mix of two and three-bedroom new-build houses and two-bedroom bungalows.', 'Independent councillor Phil Dilks said the properties were expected to be ready by the end of August.', '""This process will help refugees at a time when they need it the most, having escaped the prospect of terrible suffering in their own countries,"" he said.', '""The properties we have identified for purchase provide value for money and, at the same time, enable the council to progress this important project within a challenging timescale.""', 'He added the homes would eventually become ""valuable assets to our own property portfolio when the demand for housing is so strong"".', 'The Afghan resettlement prioritises those who assisted the UK with military operations in the country, plus those at greatest risk from the Taliban, the council said.', 'Schemes to assist Ukraine nationals focus on legal resettlement and support for women and children refugees displaced by the conflict.']"
538,"['Cambridge Central Library hosted a drumming workshop as part of Refugee Week 2023', ""The support offered to refugees at Cambridgeshire's public libraries has been recognised with a Libraries of Sanctuary award, external. "", 'It was given by City of Sanctuary UK, external, which co-ordinates services to help asylum seekers and migrants. ', 'A visitor to an Improve Your English group in Cambridge said: ""You go inside and you feel comfortable.""', 'Staff and volunteers had ""gone above and beyond to welcome people"", according to City of Sanctuary UK. ', 'Cambridgeshire has 33 county council-run and 12 community-run libraries, external. ', 'Library and culture hub to be across two sites', 'All 47 council libraries become warm spaces', 'Library book numbers drop by 470,000 in 10 years', 'Staff and volunteers pledged to work towards the City of Sanctuary award in 2022. ', 'They raised awareness of the issues facing people in the asylum system, as well as providing support. ', 'City of Sanctuary UK chief officer Sian Summers-Rees said the team had brought ""the community together and raised awareness of the reasons people are forced to move"".', 'Anyone who lives, works, visits or studies in Cambridgeshire can join the library service, external.', 'The free membership enables new arrivals to access language learning resources and free digital skills courses, including modules on finding a job and money management. ', 'The council\'s migrant champion Alex Bulat, Labour councillor and vice-chairwoman of the communities, social mobility and inclusion committee, said the award ""demonstrates that our libraries are a safe and inclusive space for everyone"".']"
539,"['The halls have stood empty since 2019', 'Plans to use old student accommodation to house asylum seekers have been withdrawn.', 'The University of Derby had applied to change the use of High Peak student halls in Buxton but High Peak Borough Council said this was pulled before a scheduled meeting on Monday.', 'High Peak Conservative MP Robert Largan was among opponents of the plans.', 'The university said it would ""revise and resubmit an application as soon as possible"".', 'A multi-storey building with 274 rooms and shared dining areas, High Peak halls has been empty since 2019, but planning officers were recommending councillors refuse the bid.', 'In a statement confirming it had withdrawn its application for a certificate of lawful purpose to allow the halls to accommodate non-students, the university said it was ""advised that the application would require additional information"".', '""While this is extremely disappointing, we still intend to repurpose this building to accommodate non-students,"" it said.', 'MP Robert Largan has said the site should be turned into homes for local people', 'Council leader Anthony McKeown said he welcomed the decision to pull the application.', '""Feelings have been running high in the town and I, like residents, did not want to see this application approved,"" he said.', '""I have been clear that this location is entirely unsuitable for the proposed use and I have written to the Home Office to object to the plans.""', 'Mr Largan said withdrawing the bid hours before the planning committee was due to discuss it was ""an extraordinary step"", adding he hoped the site could be repurposed ""into affordable homes for local people instead"".', '""I hope that the University of Derby now abandon their plans, which have always been about money and not what is in the best interests of Buxton,"" he said.', 'Residents protested against the plans on Monday']"
540,"['Maryna Nesterenko, who has a three-year-old daughter, said she wanted to be back with her family', 'A Ukrainian refugee who has been living in the UK for nine months said she was returning to her home country because there was no end to the war in sight.', 'Maryna Nesterenko, 38, and her three-year-old daughter have been living with a host family in Rendlesham, Suffolk, since November.', 'But she said she did not want to be separated from her husband and family any longer. ', '""The war goes on and no-one knows when it will end,"" she said.', 'Ms Nesterenko fled from Chernihiv, which is about a two-hour drive north of Kyiv.', 'She said it was a ""really difficult"" choice to return to the Ukraine but she needed the support from her husband and family around her.', '""If there was somebody nearby me, I would be living here longer, I would be able to rent a flat or a house but I don\'t have the support,"" she said.', 'She said her husband had been missing seeing their daughter grow up, and it had been ""heart-breaking"" for him.', 'Ukrainian artist starts residency at Suffolk garden', ""'The resolve of Ukrainian people is incredible'"", 'Ukraine aid volunteer paralysed in moped crash', '""It\'s a really difficult choice, my mind has been split into two whether to stay here or to go but nevertheless I think it\'s the right decision.', '""The whole family will be reunited together, my husband will be helping me, I will go to work, I will have spare hands.', '""We all see, the whole world sees, that the war will not finish this year, it\'s obvious,"" she said.', 'She said she was ""definitely worried"" about returning to war-torn Ukraine but there had not been any bombing of her home city for a year.', 'Meanwhile, she said she would always look back at her time in the UK and Suffolk fondly.', '""On the one hand it was the saddest time of my life because I had been separated from my relatives, my husband, my city, but on the other hand, it\'s been the most unforgettable time in my life,"" she said.']"
541,"['Afghan families given refuge by the UK are facing homelessness after being told by the government to move out of hotels, councils have told the BBC.', 'The families, many of whom worked for the British government, came to the UK after the Taliban takeover in 2021.', 'Thousands are still living in temporary government-funded hotel accommodation - but are now beginning to be moved out.', 'Cabinet Office Minister Johnny Mercer has said he will have failed if any of them end up living on the streets.', '""That has not happened. And that is not going to happen,"" he told the BBC. ', 'This video can not be played', 'Afghan refugees being forced to sleep rough has ""not happened and this is not going to happen,"" says Mercer', 'However, those that can not find permanent homes will be classed as homeless and the responsibility of local councils.', 'Councils say some families have already presented as homeless this week. The Local Government Association (LGA) said one in five Afghans leaving hotels were presenting to local authorities as homeless. ', 'It said Hertfordshire and Buckinghamshire were particularly affected, but Southampton, Basingstoke, Devon and Essex would also be impacted in the coming weeks and months. ', 'One authority in Essex said it had nine families now facing homelessness. In Milton Keynes, the council has received 32 homelessness referrals so far. ', 'Afghan refugees to leave UK hotels over the summer', 'Council set to green-light homes for Afghan refugees', ""'I've spent two years living in a hotel' - refugee"", 'Local authorities have a legal duty to find accommodation for homeless people.', 'The families were given three months notice in April to leave the hotels.', 'Mr Mercer said the government had done ""a huge amount of work"" to get Afghans into long-term, sustainable accommodation and this was ""what\'s best for them and what\'s best for British taxpayers"". ', 'He said the ""vast majority"" of those presenting as homeless ""have actually been offered somewhere to live, it\'s just for some of them, it\'s not where they want to live"".', '""Which is understandable, but that\'s not the same as living on the street because the government hasn\'t done its job,"" he added.', 'Mahmood - not his real name - was evacuated with his wife to the UK in August 2021 and his one-year-old son was born while they were living in a hotel in Lincolnshire. ', 'The family have been in the hotel for two years, but have been told they will have to leave by 25 August. ', 'The 27-year-old said he had viewed dozens of flats, but believes he has not been accepted by any landlords because the salary he earns working in a supermarket is not high enough. ', '""The council hasn\'t helped me much - they haven\'t found anything to offer to me. They say they are looking but I think at the end of the day it\'s up to landlords who they want to give their place to,"" he told the BBC. ', 'He said it was ""very difficult"" living in a single hotel room as a family of three, adding that they were unable to cook their own food or have friends visit. ', '""We are very grateful to the British government for their help to get us out of Afghanistan,"" he said. ', '""But if I had known this in Afghanistan that I would be in a hotel room for two years, I would have not come here to England - I would have been happy to stay in my own country regardless of what could have happened to me.""', 'He said he was worried about the future, adding: ""There are eight other families in this hotel and we don\'t know what\'s happening.""', 'The Home Office said it had provided £285m funding to help with the transition, and was running schemes to help more Afghan families find permanent homes.', 'But councils say the government funding is not enough and although accommodation will be found for the refugees, it may mean they have to move hundreds of miles to other hotels.', 'Stephen Robinson, the Liberal Democrat leader of Chelmsford City Council, said his housing officers had to find accommodation for nine Afghan families, totalling 60 people. ', '""They were offered the chance to come to the UK because of their loyalty to the British government and they have been stuck in hotels for the last year, 18 months, and now they are being moved out,"" he told BBC News.', 'The families had highly qualified people who wanted to contribute to British society, he added, and had found work and schools for their children.', '""They are all becoming homeless next week and we have a statutory responsibility to put them into temporary accommodation,"" he said.', 'The council already has to deal with 430 homeless households in Chelmsford, said Mr Robinson, and there was a lack of accommodation.', '""We warned the government that this would be a problem and they just covered their ears. They didn\'t want to think about the end game,"" he told the BBC.', '""We have a moral duty to those who worked for the British government to look after them properly and we have, as a country, this government, has let them down.""', 'This video can not be played', 'Local councils will now need to find housing for Afghan refugees', 'In 2021, the government launched the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy (ARAP) scheme for Afghans who had worked for the British military or UK government ', ""The Afghan Citizens' Resettlement Scheme (ACRS) opened in 2022 to allow up to 20,000 refugees to settle in the UK in the coming years "", 'As of March 2023, about 21,000 people had been resettled under these schemes, including British nationals', 'Currently, 8,799 people - about half of whom are children - are living in hotels or serviced accommodation', ""Telford & Wrekin Council leader Shaun Davies, chairman of the Local Government Association, said councils shared the Home Office's determination to get Afghan families out of hotels and into permanent homes."", 'However, he added: ""It is wrong that some families are having to leave Home Office-funded hotels only to then end up having to move into temporary accommodation.""', '""With record numbers of households already living in temporary accommodation and an acute shortage of housing across the country, this is adding huge pressure on to councils on the ground and disruption and distress for families, some of whom are particularly vulnerable,"" he said. ', '""This situation is likely to worsen significantly as the Home Office stops paying for the remaining bridging hotels for Afghan families in the coming days and weeks.""', 'He argued the government should continue to pay for hotel places for those families struggling to find accommodation.', 'Mr Davies also said hotels should not be closed to Afghan refugees only to ""switch to becoming hotels for other new arrivals"".', 'Labour MP Dan Jarvis, a former soldier who served in Afghanistan, said the idea Afghans were being ""forced to become homeless"" was ""shameful"". ', '""These are not economic migrants - these are Afghans who placed themselves in mortal peril in order to serve alongside British forces in Afghanistan, and they did so at our request,"" he told BBC Radio 4\'s Today programme.  ', 'Additional reporting by Najiba Feroz and Abdullah Bakhtiar ']"
542,"['This video can not be played', 'Leader of Chelmsford City Council, Stephen Robinson, explains how a change of approach by the UK government is forcing local councils to prevent Afghan refugees from becoming homeless.']"
543,"['Boston Borough Council will need to contribute £670,000 to fund the project', 'Boston Borough Council has agreed to accommodate refugee Afghan families as part of a government scheme.', 'Councillors voted on Wednesday evening to accept a £471,950 Home Office grant to make five properties available for the project, which is expected to cost up to £1.14m.', 'The council said the properties could be used as temporary accommodation for homeless families in the longer term. ', 'Thousands fled Afghanistan after the Taliban returned to power in 2021.  ', ""Those Afghans who helped British armed forces have since been offered refuge under the UK government's Afghan citizens resettlement scheme, external."", 'Four properties will be reserved for Afghan households, while the outstanding one will be used as general, temporary accommodation by the council to meet wider housing needs.', ""The homes are to be made available by end of March 2024 to Afghan families until their visas expire in three to five years' time."", 'During the meeting, councillor John Baxter said the initiative was ""a fantastic opportunity financially and from a moral point of view"".', 'He said the authority would need to contribute up to £670,750 from its own coffers towards the project. ', 'But once the properties were vacated by the Afghan families, the homes would then be made available for other local homeless families needing temporary accommodation, he said.']"
544,"['The project hopes to make refugees feel at home in Swindon', 'Refugees and asylum seekers have set up a community garden.', 'The Global Gardeners, a club for refugees living in Swindon, plants fruit and vegetables outside a community centre at the Railway Village.', 'Those waiting for their asylum applications to go through are not allowed to work and must stay in hotels.', 'The project aims to get them outdoors, socialising with the community.', 'One member of the group said leaving the hotel to work on the garden was ""very great""', 'One of the members of the group, Aman, has a PhD in Plant Protection from the University of Kabul in Afghanistan and has been sharing his expertise with the group, making suggestions about which plants should be bedded out.', 'He said leaving the hotel to work on the garden was ""very great"" for him.', '""We are waiting for our asylum results and this gardening programme is like entertainment,"" he said.', 'Another member, Manuel, has a ""talent for construction"" and has been helping to build and fix parts of the garden.', 'Manuel has a ""talent for construction"" and has been building and fixing parts of the garden', 'Jacob Green, from Live Well Swindon, external which supports the project, said: ""One of my favourite parts of this project is that it feels like we built a community between groups of people who otherwise may not have come into contact with each other.', '""Residents will walk past and say what a good job we\'re doing and take home a few sprigs of mint to make tea.', '""Even those kinds of simple interactions are really empowering and heart-warming.""', 'Aman has a PhD in Plant Protection from the University of Kabul and shares his expertise', 'Councillor Jim Grant, Swindon Borough Council\'s cabinet member for communities, said: ""The group helps bring together refugees and asylum seekers to form these important communities and make them feel at home in our town. ', '""Swindon is a welcoming place and we want to keep it that way.', '""[Gardening is] such an important way to get people outside, taking pride in their local area and engaging with the local community.""']"
545,"['The halls have stood empty since 2019', 'Planning officers have recommended proposals for asylum seeker accommodation at a student halls are refused.', 'The University of Derby has applied to change the use of High Peak student halls in Buxton to housing for refugees. ', 'The multi-storey building with 274 rooms and shared dining areas has been empty since 2019.', 'High Peak Borough councillors will consider the application on Monday.', 'The university is applying for a certificate of lawfulness for a proposed use, an assessment as to whether or not the plans require planning permission from the council.', 'It said the change of use ""would allow the space to be used by non-students, rather than stand empty"".', 'In a statement, it added: ""The University of Derby, like many in the local community, believes that we should support those in need whenever we can.', '""We are fortunate to be in a position where we can provide some limited help to individuals who have fled their country.""', 'High Peak Conservative MP Robert Largan has also spoken out against the plans', 'Derbyshire Police said it was worried the location would be unsuitable due to ""ongoing policing concerns and activity"" and the vulnerabilities of people placed at the site.', ""A report - published ahead of next week's borough council meeting - said the authority had received 1,400 objections and 14 comments of support."", 'Planning officers cited that the students\' use of the halls had ""particular characteristics"", such as that occupation was not all-year round, and that students often had access to local services at their ""home address"".', 'Recommending that the certificate of lawfulness be refused, they added: ""The use as described and proposed is of an excessively broad scope which is likely to include considerable variables with material difference in their character and effects. ', '""It has not been possible to reach the planning judgment and state with confidence that use by all \'non students\' would not give rise to a material change of use and involve development. In these respects the proposed use as described in the application cannot be considered lawful."" ']"
546,"['The UN says more than 2,000 people have been forced to flee violence between rival factions at a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon.', ""The clashes between Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah movement and Islamist groups left 11 people dead, the UN says. "", 'A ceasefire has now been agreed although gunfire was still being reported on Monday.', 'Established in 1948, the Ein el-Hilweh camp is the largest in Lebanon.', 'The UN says it houses more than 63,000 registered refugees, but some estimates say the population is higher.', 'The camp, situated near the southern city of Sidon, falls outside the jurisdiction of the Lebanese security forces. ', 'It is left up to rival factions within the camp to maintain its security, but factional disputes are common.', ""The weekend's violence erupted on Saturday when a member of an Islamist group was killed, AFP news agency reports, quoting an unnamed source inside the camp. "", 'Tensions continued to mount through to Sunday, culminating with the death of a Fatah commander, Ashraf al-Armouchi, and several of his aides.', 'A ceasefire agreed on Sunday soon broke down, and heavy fighting was again reported on Monday with gun and anti-tank fire echoing through the camp.  ', 'More than 40 people were injured in the clashes, including a UN aid worker, and two schools were damaged, the UN agency for Palestinian refugees (UNRWA) said.', 'A second ceasefire agreed on Monday after a meeting with the local MP appears to have improved the situation, although there are still reports of some gunfire. ', 'The Palestinian presidency denounced the fighting, calling the security of the camps a ""red line"". ', '""It is not permissible for anyone to intimidate our people and tamper with their security,"" it said in a statement.', 'As well as the nine dead, Lebanese soldiers were also injured during the violence, the Lebanese army said.', ""The director of the UNRWA in Lebanon, Dorothee Kraus, said all the agency's operations in the camp had been suspended."", 'She called on ""all parties to immediately return to calm and take all measures necessary to protect civilians, including children"".', 'More than 489,000 Palestinian refugees are registered with UNRWA in Lebanon, the agency says, external. but no more than 250,000 currently reside in the country.', 'Update 23 August 23: This article was amended to include an estimate of the number of Palestinian refugees residing in Lebanon.', 'You may also be interested in:', 'This video can not be played', 'Syrian refugees in Lebanon describe how living on aid is ""eating us up inside""']"
547,"['The council said the funding would allow them to continue to ""help with essential aspects such as paying deposits and rent in advance""', 'A council says it will be able to provide more support to refugees and those facing homelessness in the district.', 'West Oxfordshire District Council (WODC) said it was committed to keep helping refugee groups and individuals find permanent homes.', 'It has received a £220,541 government grant for Ukrainian guests and others in need until the end of 2024.', 'A woman who benefitted from the scheme called it ""a good starting point"".', 'WODC supports three primary refugee schemes for Syrians, Afghans and Ukrainians but it does not limit its help to these specific groups.', 'It said it had also been ""actively supporting Ukrainian families and individuals in finding permanent homes"" through the Homes for Ukraine scheme, external.', 'Councillor Geoff Saul, member for housing, said they were ""delighted"" to take steps towards improving the living situations of refugee guests and ""addressing the pressing issue of homelessness in our community"".', 'Olha came to the UK under the Homes for Ukraine scheme and is now helping others in need', 'Olha is one of the guests who had to make ""a very hard decision"" to leave her life behind and ""flee from the war"".', 'Now, she helps others rebuild their lives as a housing officer at the South Oxfordshire and Vale of White Horse district councils.', '""I consider Homes for Ukraine hosting arrangements to be a good starting point for guests to get used to the environment and begin settling in a new country"", Olha said.', 'She added that guests are encouraged to be ""open-minded and proactive and to consider all possible options"", due to the high accommodation demand in Oxfordshire.']"
548,"['""I want to make sure I give what I receive. Give back to the community, back to the kids"" - Shabir Haidary', 'A boxer who fled war-torn Afghanistan as a child is now coaching children in the city that gave him shelter.', 'Shabir Haidary arrived in Gloucester as an asylum seeker in his mid teens.', 'His foster mum, Ann McDonald, encouraged him to join the Fight Factory boxing gym in Gloucester.', 'Mr Haidary, who was granted British citizenship last month, is now coaching at the venue and says he is giving back to the community that supported him.', 'Shabir Haidary has had five fights as a professional boxer', 'Mr Haidary, a personal trainer with a sports, strength and conditioning degree from the University of Gloucester, said: ""Along my journey, coming over, it wasn\'t easy for me.', '""On my journey, I\'ve seen things I shouldn\'t have as a young child.""', 'Leo says Mr Haidary has won every single fight he has seen', 'One of his students Leo said he was inspired by his teacher.', '""He works hard in training, he works hard in fighting and he has a good amateur record,"" said Leo.', '""I want to be a champion when I\'m older, just like Shab.""', 'His foster mum, Ms McDonald, said he was a big part of the community.', '""They\'re all like a big family really, and the kids he trains - it\'s just changed his life.""', 'Mr Haidary says he believes greatness is in store for his future', 'By the time he is 30, Mr Haidary hopes to hold a world title and his coach Jon Pitman says he has got all of the attributes to go a long way.', 'Mr Pitman told the BBC: ""We\'ve just got to get the right fights at the right time and each level we get to, we\'ve got to conquer that one and then we\'ve got to progress to the next one.""', 'Mr Haidary has had five fights as a professional boxer and his sixth is due on 30 September, where he hopes to claim the Southern Area title.', '""This is only the start for me and there\'s a lot more to come,"" he said', '""We\'re almost at the verge of opening that door and getting to where we want to get to.""']"
549,"['A group of migrants walking up the beach in Dungeness, Kent', 'Campaigners want the government to trial a new ""refugee visa"" scheme for people fleeing war and persecution. ', 'The Refugee Council is proposing safe and legal paths for asylum seekers to travel to the UK it says will help to stop small boat crossings.', 'As of 19 July, 14,071 people have crossed the Channel so far this year.  ', ""The Illegal Migration Act 2023 is central to the prime minister's pledge to stop small boats crossing the English Channel."", 'Under the new legislation, the home secretary has a duty to detain and remove those arriving in the UK illegally either to Rwanda, or another ""safe"" third country. ', 'The Refugee Council has criticised the new law and claimed it will not work. ', 'The charity urged the government to pilot a one-year scheme, external which would see the government issue 10,000 visas to asylum seekers from five of the top refugee-producing countries - Afghanistan, Eritrea, Iran, Syria and Sudan. ', 'Small boat arrivals accounted for about 45% of asylum applications made in 2022. ', 'After Albanians, the second largest group that crossed the English channel in 2022, came from Afghanistan followed by Iran, Iraq and Syria.', 'Enver Solomon, chief executive of the Refugee Council, said: ""The proposals we set out would go some way towards making the smugglers redundant. ', '""When there are safer alternatives for people to travel to the UK to begin their refugee application, the number of people arriving in boats will drop significantly.""', 'The proposed scheme is similar to the ones used for Ukrainians fleeing conflict - at an estimated cost of £50.2m. ', 'Applicants would need to have left their home country before requesting a visa. ', 'Basic security and nationality checks would be carried out, with other forms of documentation accepted if the applicant did not have a passport, according to the charity.', 'Responding to the report, a Home Office spokeswoman said: ""Our priority is to stop the boats. ', '""Those in need of protection should claim asylum in the first safe country they reach rather than risking their lives or paying people smugglers to arrive illegally in the UK.', '""Our Illegal Migration Act is a key part of our work to deter people from making unnecessary journeys to the UK.""', 'The Home Office insisted there are a number of ""safe and legal, external"" routes to the UK.', 'However, some are restricted to people from specific countries, while other routes only accept limited numbers. ']"
550,"['Around 350 Ukrainians originally applied for visas on the Isle of Wight', 'Just over £2m has been set aside to buy homes for Ukrainian refugees on the Isle of Wight.', ""The cash comes from the Homes for Ukraine grant, part of the government's £150m fund to support people who fled to the UK from Ukraine following Russia's invasion."", 'The majority of refugees on the island are living with host families.', 'The Isle of Wight Council said the move would not impact its ability to support local families and the homeless.', 'The money would help reduce the risk of Ukrainians becoming homeless as they try to find alternative places to live, said the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities.', 'No homes have been bought yet but the £2.2m could be used to support nine\xa0of the Ukrainian families who settled on the island, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service (LDRS).', 'The latest government figures, external show that between the start of the invasion and 18 July this year, 255 Ukrainians have arrived on the Isle of Wight, sponsored by families to get visas.', 'According to the data, around 350 Ukrainians originally applied for visas, supported by island residents, but only 306 were issued and even fewer people arrived.']"
551,"['Ella Lambert says she hopes the project can help end period poverty and stigma', 'A project set up by a student sewing reusable sanitary pads to help refugees during the pandemic has become a charity. ', 'Ella Lambert, 23, from Chelmsford in Essex, began the Pachamama Project in August 2020 while studying at the University of Bristol. ', 'She has since built a global network of 2,000 volunteers, who have sewn 100,000 colourful Pacha Pads.', '""We want to eradicate period poverty and eradicate period stigma,"" she said.', 'Miss Lambert began learning to sew by watching online videos and started the project from her kitchen table. ', 'Three years on the pads are delivered to refugees and vulnerable people in 10 countries, including Lebanon, Greece, Pakistan and the United States.', 'Miss Lambert is now aiming to launch school period pad sewing clubs in a scheme akin to The Duke of Edinburgh Award in a bid to eradicate period poverty and stigma.', 'Miss Lambert said the project has snowballed since it started in 2020', 'She said gaining charity status was ""so exciting"".', '""I just didn\'t think this would ever happen. A few years ago, I had a little lightbulb moment and today we have this beautiful community - it\'s really snowballed.', '""When we started, we had volunteers who were shielding or feeling isolated and they\'ve been able to find a purpose and be part of a worldwide family.', '""Three years ago, people weren\'t really talking about periods. Now it\'s on the agenda,"" she said.', 'Miss Lambert suffered debilitating period pain and learnt to sew to help others suffering due to their periods.', 'Last year, she helped co-ordinate the distribution of thousands of pads to hospitals in Ukraine and women in refugee camps.', 'Pads have been sent to refugees across the world including those fleeing Ukraine', 'The project recently started working in Uganda, with recipients saying they were now able to go to school during their periods.', 'Miss Lambert said: ""When I think about what impact we\'ve had in just three years, with no one working on it full-time, I think we could triple our impact. ', '""We want to eradicate period poverty and eradicate period stigma.""']"
552,"['There is ""no reason"" that Afghans refugees should become homeless when they leave temporary hotels this summer, a minister has said.', 'Johnny Mercer confirmed that people still living in taxpayer-funded hotels and apartments will have to leave from as soon as the end of July.', ""Thousands are still living in temporary accommodation after coming to the UK after the Taliban's takeover in 2021."", 'Labour accused ministers of ""kicking them out onto the street"".', 'Shadow armed forces minister Luke Pollard likened Mr Mercer, the veterans minister, to a ""bailiff serving the eviction notices"".', 'But Mr Mercer said the government had been ""extremely generous,"" and extra funding would be given to councils to help people resettle.', 'Help house 10,000 Afghans, minister tells councils', 'Government plans to move Afghan refugees from hotels ', 'Afghan refugees take UK to court over school move', 'Thousands of people fled Afghanistan after the Taliban took back control of the country in August 2021 after Western forces pulled out.', 'Around 21,100 Afghans have come to the UK under two separate schemes: one for vulnerable people and religious minorities, another for those who worked for the British military and UK government.', 'Those resettled through the two schemes have been given indefinite leave, as well as the right to work and claim benefits.', 'The government says around 8,000 people were still in temporary accommodation in March, of which around half had been there for over a year.', 'Speaking in the Commons, Mr Mercer said ""many hundreds"" had moved out since then, but did not give a precise figure.', 'Although there had been progress in helping people move out of ""costly"" hotels, he added, there was more to do to help Afghans move out and achieve the ""opportunity to live self-sufficiently"".', ""The government says notices to quit have been issued since April, and those being told to leave have received at least three months' notice."", 'It says that there will be flexibility for those with medical needs and those waiting a short period before moving into confirmed accommodation.', 'It adds councils will be given an extra £7,100 per person to support those moving out with paying for deposits, furniture, and rent advances.', 'Mr Mercer told MPs there was ""no tangible reason why any Afghan family should present as homeless"" given the government support on offer.', 'The Local Government Association, which represents councils in England and Wales, said it supported the idea of getting resettled Afghans into permanent homes.', 'But it warned that finding the required amount of affordable accommodation would be ""extremely challenging"" given pressures on the asylum system and an ""acute shortage"" of housing.', '""Councils remain hugely concerned that large numbers of families - some of whom are particularly vulnerable - may have to end up presenting as homeless,"" added LGA chair Shaun Davies. ']"
553,"['This video can not be played', 'Nataliia and Sofiia attend Ysgol Llanfairpwll on Anglesey', 'When I first met nine-year-old Nataliia and eight-year-old Sofiia from Ukraine they had just completed a specialist Welsh language course. ', 'Their story caught the attention of audiences around the world. ', 'The girls are now almost fluent in Welsh and are nearing the end of their summer term at school on Anglesey. ', 'Their immersion teacher said the girls could hardly speak English when they arrived, but now they move seamlessly between all three languages. ', 'Both girls have been pupils at Ysgol Llanfairpwll on Anglesey since January. ', '""I like to speak Welsh, I speak Welsh at school and with friends,"" said Nataliia, originally from Odesa.', '""It\'s nice to learn new languages... I\'ve learnt anferth (old) mawr (big) newydd (new) cryf (very strong).""', 'Netflix to show first Welsh language drama', 'BBC Young Reporter worried about losing his Welsh', 'Sofiia, from Kryvyi Rih said: ""I like all new words - what I don\'t know in 2023 on one day, in three days I know it.""', 'The girls said they are excited to continue learning Welsh', ""Nataliia's favourite word made quite an impression in December - so does she still like it?"", '""Yes,"" she said.', '""Arch-farch-nad! It\'s a very big word for supermarket, I like it because it\'s \'cccchhhh\'!""', 'As is usual with the language unit where they had their first lessons, the staff go out to the schools during the summer term to catch up with pupils and give additional tuition.', ""Nataliia and Sofiia's teacher Eira Owen said the girls can now move seamlessly between three languages"", ""Immersion teacher Eira Owen has seen a huge improvement - and not only in terms of the girls' grasp of Welsh. "", 'She said: ""It\'s lovely to see them after over a term and see how they\'ve progressed and that the good work has continued here at Ysgol Llanfairpwll. I\'m extremely pleased with their development.', '""Especially for these girls, I think they\'ve been through so much, it\'s nice to have a personal connection from when we were in such a small group in Moelfre and now seeing them once a week, just in a little group. ', '""It\'s fantastic to see children who arrived here in September, they\'ve now got three languages - the Ukrainian, the Welsh and the English.""', 'Sofiia says she gets to spend a lot of time with her parents now they are in Wales', ""Since starting at Ysgol Llanfairpwll the girls have taken part in activities such as the St. David's Day parade, the Urdd Eisteddfod and learning Welsh songs."", 'Ffion Hughes, their class teacher, says they have settled really well.', '""It\'s nice that they\'ve got each other. Everything that we\'ve done, they\'ve wanted to be part of it. They\'ve taken everything on board and done it with a big smile on their face.""', 'Nataliia and Sofiia have also been teaching some Ukrainian to their fellow pupils.', 'Ms Hughes explained: ""It\'s been nice for the other pupils to appreciate different cultures, different languages.', '""The girls have been showing different things from their country and helping us with different words when we\'ve asked them about them as well.""', 'Nataliia likes living in Wales but misses her family in Ukraine', 'Although both are happy in Wales, they often think about their homeland.', '""I like living in Wales, it\'s nice with the nature, but I miss Ukraine,"" explains Nataliia.', '""My aunt and uncle, they have two children... and I\'ve got my home there, my friends, my teacher that was teaching me and my parrot in Ukraine.""', 'Sofiia sees the benefits of being in Wales, especially since her father was able to join the family on Anglesey.', '""In Wales I can be more with dad, with mum, with my sister, with my grandma, we\'re with each other more. We can go to the park, go for a barbecue.', '""I love this school. In Ukraine, we have so much homework and here, \'dipyn bach, dipyn bach\' (a little). I want schools like this in Ukraine.""', 'Their fellow Ukrainian, Danylo, who was also at the language unit in Moelfre, has returned to his homeland.', 'While continuing to settle into Welsh life, Sofiia and Nataliia are now looking forward to the summer holidays before starting another school year in September.']"
554,"['Mehdi Zoodashna is a Greco Roman wrestler', 'Musicians and athletes from Iran who have settled in Northern Ireland are among more than 8,000 people from the country who have applied for asylum in the United Kingdom over the past year. ', 'There are no exact figures for how many Iranians are living in NI.', ""But as protests continue across Iran on the issue of women's rights, BBC News NI spoke to some of those who have fled."", 'Among them is Mehdi Zoodashna.', 'He was a champion Greco Roman wrestler in Iran and has been in Northern Ireland for four months with his wife Diana Amini, who is a champion rower and coach. ', 'Wrestling in the colours of the Barbarians club in Carrickfergus, County Antrim, Mehdi grappled his way to gold at the British Wrestling Championships last month - topping the podium in the Greco Roman category of the tournament in Manchester. ', ""It was the first medal he's won since being in Northern Ireland, and he said his sights were now set on the Olympics. "", '""I really like Northern Ireland, the people are lovely and we get a lot of positive energy from them,"" he said.', '""They are helping us to progress in our life and in our sport, and be more motivated. ', '""I\'ve been a wrestler in my country and I work out a lot so I\'ve just continued my job here and I achieved the medal here in Northern Ireland. ', '""The biggest dream for any professional like me is to participate in the Olympics. ', '""I\'ve been fighting a lot, all my life, for this goal.""', 'Of leaving Iran, the 30-year-old said: ""Of course nobody wants to move out of their motherland but we\'ve been struggling a lot with political, economic and social issues and we couldn\'t focus on our goal, every day we were focusing on the problems. ', '""Of course I\'m eager to build up a new life here - I really want to develop in my sport and I want to help young people here develop in the sport.""', 'Diana Amini says her Lagan Dragon teammates are like family', 'Since arriving in Northern Ireland, Diana Amini has been coaching the Lagan Dragons, a dragon boat club for people affected either directly or indirectly by breast cancer. ', '""I really like Northern Ireland and I\'m feeling safe here. I\'ve found lots of good friends, they\'ve supported me and make me feel like I\'m making progress. ', '""There are lots of issues in Iran at the minute and specifically because we work in sport, we had to leave.""', 'Of her Lagan Dragon crew mates, Diana said: ""I really love them, they treat me really good and we are like a family here. ', '""They are always telling me they support me, they love me. And I hope I can find my confidence back as a coach. ', '""Back in Iran I felt like they didn\'t appreciate me or what I\'ve done but as I\'ve come here, they tell me I have a very important job to do and they really appreciate me, it\'s a big deal really. ', '""They understand me. I have a lot of experience, I\'ve been in this sport around 15 years and I\'m educated in my sport. I like to pass on my experience to others and help.""', 'The couple are keen to work in Northern Ireland as soon as possible but are currently unable to because of their asylum status. ', '""People need to work so they can get whatever they need and to focus on our goals - but the problem is now we are waiting on the Home Office decision,"" Diana said. ', '""Before that we cannot do work, we cannot enter some competitions so it\'s really hard for us.', '""As a sportswoman I fight a lot to achieve my goals, and I\'ve already been fighting for my life, so I don\'t want to be pessimistic - I want to be optimistic and I see the future really bright.""', 'According to Home Office figures, there were 7,719 applications from Iranians for asylum in the UK in the year ending March 2023.', 'Karen Case captains the Lagan Dragons and said she was very proud of how the team had welcomed Diana.', '""They\'ve welcomed her not just into the club but into their lives,"" she said.', '""She\'s competed at international level, won gold medals, and she\'s come to our little club. We\'re so lucky to have her.""', 'Nasim Heidari and Omid Shir Mohammadi are both musicians', 'Musicians Nasim Heidari and Omid Shir Mohammadi, both 31, have been living in Belfast for more than a year. ', ""They've been invited to perform at the WOMAD world music festival in Wiltshire in England, founded by music star Peter Gabriel, at the end of July. "", '""I really like it here, I feel peace here. I like the people, I like the accent,"" Nasim said.', '""When I got here, I could see my future is brighter.""', 'Of leaving Iran and performing at WOMAD, Nasim said: ""One of the reasons was, there is no rights for women in Iran and it\'s so restricted for singing. I wanted to follow my dreams. ', '""Singing was illegal in Iran for women.', '""This is like one of my dreams came true, to go there and perform there."" ', 'Omid said he had ""no freedom"" to work as a musician in Iran.  ', '""For a long time I didn\'t see my parents and my family. My brother died while I was out of my country - as you can imagine it was really not easy,"" he said. ', '""But if it is about safety, if it is about life, then there is no choice.', '""Artists, writers, musicians, suffered a lot in Iran - especially women. ', '""Of course it was not easy, but it was for freedom. ', '""I feel a responsibility to help women artists from Iran. We should take care of each other as a human. ', '""Women have always been under pressure, and under limit, I feel really responsible as a man and as a music producer - I think we should support them.""', 'Of his hopes for the future, Omid said: ""If you asked me that question when I was in Iran, I would say my future looked very dark but now I see myself here and I have made a lot of friends, so I can say the future could be real bright for me.""', 'Darren Ferguson from Beyond Skin, an organisation supporting Nasim and Omid, said: ""When they\'re at WOMAD they\'re representing Iran but also Belfast on a global stage.', '""We see this all the time where businesses and the creative industries recognise the talent and skills coming to our shores - unfortunately some of our political leaders do not recognise that. ', '""So I think this sends out a signal that the talent coming to our shores has been recognised at such a high level.""']"
555,"['The UK government evacuated thousands of Afghan nationals in 2021', 'A refugee evacuated from Afghanistan says he now regrets leaving after living in a hotel for almost two years.', 'Sami, whose name we have changed, and his family were among thousands evacuated to the UK after the Taliban seized control of the country in 2021. ', 'The refugees were promised support by then Prime Minister Boris Johnson as part of Operation Warm Welcome. ', 'But thousands of evacuees who are still in hotels have now been sent eviction notices by the Home Office.', ""Sami was invited on to an evacuation flight because he could have faced reprisals for involvement in the UK's mission in Afghanistan."", 'He has since found a job, but said finding a new home had proved difficult due to landlords being reluctant to take on a tenant who is a refugee.', 'Sami said: ""When we arrived at this hotel, we were told we\'d be here for one to three weeks. My wife said three weeks would be boring.', '""Now we\'ve been here for two years. The British government helped us, but we didn\'t think we\'d stay for two years in hotels.', '""In two years, we haven\'t received a single offer of accommodation. In two years, why wasn\'t it possible to create accommodation with all the money they\'ve spent?', '""I regret leaving. If I\'d known we\'d spend two years in a hotel, we wouldn\'t have left.""', 'Sami, who is living in one of the four hotels in the East Midlands used to accommodate Afghan evacuees, said not having a permanent home had been tough for him, his wife and their young child. ', 'He added: ""We can\'t cook. We don\'t have a home. My wife is very tired. It\'s very difficult.""', 'He is happy the hotels are closing [to them] next month, but worried his family will have nowhere to go, as they have already applied to rent homes in several towns and cities without success.', 'Another Afghan evacuee said he had telephoned a number of landlords, but many of them end the call when he mentions the Home Office. One letting agent told him the Home Office process takes too long, so she would prefer to rent to other applicants.', 'Ali, whose name we have also changed to protect his family in Afghanistan, is a former British Army interpreter who is now in Derby with his wife and three children. ', 'He said: ""I am now in a house. It\'s going well. Everything is good. I\'ve been in a house for one year.""', 'However, even though Ali is settled, he said he was ""still struggling"", because he is relying on unpredictable agency work. He is now trying to pass his driving test, so he can work as an Uber or delivery driver.', 'Local Authorities in the East Midlands have resettled 570 Afghans, but are still trying to find permanent accommodation for 321 Afghan refugees.', 'East Midlands Councils\' executive director, Stuart Young, said housing every family by the end of August would be ""very challenging"" because suitable properties are in short supply, and they may need to consider ""consolidating"" bridging accommodation into one or two hotels.', 'He added: ""The main thing is to make sure these Afghan people are not homeless because that\'s distressing for them obviously, but it will also lead to increased costs and pressure for local authorities because they have a statutory responsibility to stop homelessness.""', 'During the announcement of Operation Warm Welcome in 2021, Boris Johnson said: ""We will never forget the brave sacrifice made by Afghans who chose to work with us, at great risk to themselves. ', '""We owe them and their families a huge debt.""', ""Veterans' Affairs Minister, Johnny Mercer, then said in March this year about 9,000 Afghans had been helped to find settled housing, but 8,000 were still living in bridging hotels and about half of those were children. "", 'He announced £35m in extra funding to help local authorities move Afghan families from bridging hotels into permanent homes.', ""Veterans' Affairs minister Johnny Mercer has warned any Afghan evacuees will not receive a second offer of accommodation"", 'However those who remain in the hotels have now received eviction notices from the Home Office. ', 'In a statement the Home Office said it was not in refugees\' ""best interests to be living in hotel accommodation for months or years on end"", and it was now speeding up their resettlement into long-term homes. ', 'It has also promised that local councils will help those affected with initial rent, furniture costs and deposits, and can support households who do not have a guarantor.', 'But some still living in hotels have rejected offers of rental accommodation, sometimes because they were too far away from their families or jobs.', 'Mr Mercer has told Parliament the refusal of homes cannot continue. ', 'He said: ""Where an offer of accommodation can be made and is turned down, another will now not be forthcoming. At a time when there are many pressures on the taxpayer and the housing market, it is not right that people can choose to stay in hotels when other perfectly suitable accommodation is available.', '""We remain unbowed in our commitment to those who supported us at great personal risk in Afghanistan. The debt we owe them is one borne by our nation as a whole.', '""There are veterans across this country enjoying normal lives today because of the service and sacrifice of that cohort who kept them safe in Afghanistan. It is a national duty that we have in communities up and down this country.""']"
556,"['This video can not be played', 'Ukrainian refugees living on a cruise ship in Leith have been moved into new accommodation. ', 'More than 1,000 Ukrainian refugees had been housed on the MS Victoria however, the Scottish government’s contract with Forth Ports ended on Tuesday. ', 'A lack of sufficient accommodation meant that not all people on board could stay in Edinburgh.', 'People without a home to move to will be temporarily housed in hotels, supported by the Scottish government.', 'One of the residents, Natalia Pidruchna, told BBC Scotland how she was feeling about the move.']"
557,"['The Archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby, has been one of the most vocal critics of the Illegal Migration Bill', 'The House of Lords has voted to back an attempt to force the government to produce a 10-year strategy on refugees and trafficking, as part of its migration bill.', ""The Archbishop of Canterbury led the move to include the strategy in the government's flagship legislation to stop small boat crossings to the UK."", 'Justin Welby insisted the strategy would improve and not damage the bill.', 'Peers have voted to approve multiple changes to the bill in the Lords.', 'But ministers are expected to ask MPs to overturn the changes when the legislation returns to the House of Commons, where the Conservative government has a majority.', 'The bill is central to Prime Minister Rishi Sunak\'s high-profile pledge to ""stop"" small boats crossing the English Channel - one of his five key pledges.', 'The number of migrants crossing from France set a record for June, pushing the total for the year above 11,000.', ""Earlier, Mr Sunak's spokesman said the government would press ahead with its Illegal Migration Bill, despite the string of defeats it has suffered in the Lords."", 'Mr Welby has been one of the most vocal critics of the bill, previously condemning the legislation as ""morally unacceptable"" and ""politically impractical"".', 'As peers debated the bill on Wednesday, Mr Welby tabled two amendments which would require the government to have a 10-year strategy for collaborating internationally to tackle refugee crises and human trafficking.', 'Speaking in the Lords, Mr Welby said the amendment was ""intended to be helpful"" and mitigate ""some of the concerns about a lack of a global and long-term perspective on the issues"".', '""I urge the government to develop a strategy that is ambitious, collaborative and worthy of our history and up to the scale of the enormous challenges that we face,"" Mr Welby said.', 'Lords vote to keep child migrant detention limits', 'How many people cross the Channel in small boats?', 'Is Sunak keeping his five key promises?', 'Peers inflicted further defeats on the government as they debated and voted on detailed changes to the bill. There will be a further day of debate in the Lords before it returns to the Commons. ', 'One amendment would make it a legal duty for ministers to create safe and legal routes to the UK for refugees by next spring. Two others reinstate and expand a right of appeal against age assessments for migrants claiming to be children.', 'Ahead of Wednesday\'s debate, the Archbishops of Canterbury and York urged ministers to back changes to the legislation to ensure a ""just"" and ""compassionate"" asylum policy.', 'In a letter to The Times, external signed by eight other faith leaders, the two archbishops warned the legislation ""falls short of our obligation to the most vulnerable"".', ""The prime minister's official spokesman said he was not going to respond to individual opinions."", 'But, he added, Mr Sunak was ""clear that stopping the boats, stopping the cruel cycle of vulnerable people being exploited by criminal gangs, is the fair and compassionate thing to do"". ', 'If passed, the bill would place a legal duty on the government to detain and remove migrants arriving in the UK illegally, either to Rwanda or another ""safe"" third country.', 'The government has stressed it remains committed to its plan to remove migrants to Rwanda, and has said it will challenge a Court of Appeal ruling last week that this was unlawful.', 'On Tuesday, Mr Sunak told the Liaison Committee of senior MPs the government\'s case would be made in the Supreme Court ""confidently and vigorously"".', 'In the first six months of 2023, 11,434 people were detected making the journey from France, according to provisional Home Office figures.', 'The June total of 3,824 was the highest since records began in 2018. In June last year, 3,140 migrants arrived in the UK after crossing the Channel.', 'Despite the record June number, the total for the first half of the year was 10% lower than for January-June 2022 (12,747).', 'In January, Mr Sunak set out five pledges which he said would address ""the people\'s priorities"", including passing new laws to stop Channel crossings. But he did not put a timescale on achieving the promise. ', 'Last month, he insisted his plan was ""starting to work"".', 'Labour has accused the prime minister of chasing ""short-term headlines instead of doing the hard work needed to tackle the problem"".', 'Shadow Home Secretary Yvette Cooper said: ""The numbers of dangerous crossings are rising again, hotel costs are spiralling, all while the government\'s flagship Rwanda policy unravels in front of their eyes.""']"
558,"['This video can not be played', 'See inside Jenin refugee camp after Israeli assault', '""We had to flee. Or my daughters and I would have been killed,"" Fatina al-Ghoul says, weeping as she looks back at a pile of rubble that was once her home.', 'A bulldozer has already arrived and is clearing up debris from her street, which has been left in ruins.', ""She and nine other women, her family and neighbours, fled their homes in Jenin's refugee camp during one of the largest Israeli operations in the occupied West Bank in years."", ""Fatina's family is one of hundreds now returning to what's left of their homes, decimated by drone strikes and fighting between the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and armed Palestinians."", 'Palestinians fear escalation after Jenin assault', 'The IDF described it as a ""counter-terrorism operation"", saying they were targeting weapons stores and manufacturing facilities belonging to militant groups in the area.', 'But the Palestinian foreign ministry condemned the operation as ""open war against the people of Jenin"".', 'Hundreds of Israeli troops backed by drone strikes entered Jenin refugee camp - where almost 24,000 people live in an area of less than half a square kilometre - on Monday morning, triggering intense gun battles with armed Palestinians inside.', 'Palestinian health officials said 12 Palestinians were killed over the next two days, including four children, and that more than 100 others were injured. The Israeli military said one of its soldiers was killed as its forces started to withdraw on Tuesday night.', 'Thousands attend the funerals of the 12 Palestinians killed during the two-day Israeli military operation in Jenin', '""My house has been completely destroyed. Everything is broken and burned. It\'s all damaged,"" Fatina says.', 'Several local hospitals also told the BBC that they were struggling to cope with the fallout from the fighting.', 'Thousands of locals also took to the streets on Wednesday for the funerals of those killed. So far, it has been confirmed to the BBC that eight of the dead were members of the military wings of the main Palestinian factions.', 'Guns were fired in support of the deceased fighters. ', 'Many residents say they blame the Palestinian Authority (PA), the main governing body of the Palestinians in the West Bank, for not protecting them during the operation.', 'Videos circulating online showed two PA representatives forced to leave a funeral after being chastised by the crowd.', ""Residents complained that at the beginning of the operation the PA's security forces simply allowed the Israeli military vehicles to enter the city."", 'Fatina says she also blames the PA for their lack of action. ""This is our home. We are living in fear, and we are the only ones left to protect it.""', '""There are agreements between the PA and Israel. The PA has not broken the agreement and security services have done their job during the military operation according to what it was asked to do by the Palestinian leadership,"" Mayor of Jenin City and PA member Akram Rajoub told the BBC.', 'One fighter from a Palestinian militant group said that Israeli forces had successful destroyed several of its facilities, including a storage unit containing explosives.', ""However, the scale of the operation inside a densely populated city and refugee camp was criticised by the UN's human rights chief."", 'For many residents like Fatina, immediate access to drinking water, food and shelter is now critical.', '""Tonight we will sleep on the streets. We can\'t even sit down inside the house. There is nowhere else to go, for us or any of our neighbours.""', ""The streets inside Jenin's refugee camp have been decimated""]"
559,"[""The orchestra had their first big gig at St George's concert hall in June"", 'An orchestra made of refugees from all over the world has had its first big performance.', 'The Dovetail Orchestra opened its doors to Bristol-based asylum-seekers and refugees last autumn. ', ""Since then they have been meeting every week to make music together and they had their first big gig in the St George's concert hall in June."", 'Founder Jon James said: ""We\'re trying to provide a musical sanctuary and home.""', 'Founder Jon James said he is trying to provide a ""musical sanctuary and home""', '""That feels meaningful because some of our members come from a very traumatic past,"" Mr James added.', '""There are some real stories of challenge that they need to get over.', '""I think music is about allowing people to enter a space of memory, of connecting with other and of joy.""', 'Krystyna said the orchestra was like ""musical therapy"" for her and helped her stay in the present moment', 'Krystyna, from Ukraine, has been with the orchestra for the past four months.', '""For me, it\'s healing, it\'s like musical therapy,"" she said. ""I can enjoy it and be in the present moment.""', 'Diego said magic was a ""small word"" to describe the way he feels about the orchestra', 'Diego from El Salvador said he was oppressed in his home country, and coming to the UK ""opened his eyes"".', '""When I got here, I realised how big the world is. I got a chance to build bridges and walk those bridges,"" he said.', '""It\'s not just a group you play gigs with, you get to be a family,"" he added about the orchestra. ', '""I think magic is a small word to describe it.""']"
560,"['This video can not be played', ""Jeremy Bowen is in Jenin, outside the main hospital that is treating those hurt in Israel's operation.""]"
561,"['Shaun Davies will highlight refugee issues in his first speech as chair of the Local Government Association', 'Pressures on local authorities to protect and support asylum seekers have created a ""crisis point"", according to one leader. ', 'Shaun Davies, leader of Telford and Wrekin Council, said demands on councils were ""unsustainable"".', ""In his first speech as chair of the Local Government Association (LGA), he will highlight pressures on housing, homelessness and children's services."", 'The Home Office said it had a plan backed by £285m of new funding. ', '""We want to work with the government to get this right,"" Mr Davies said. ', 'There was a risk of Afghan families becoming homeless and ending up in temporary accommodation due to a housing shortages as a government deadline for them to leave hotels approaches, said the LGA.', 'About 8,000 individuals and families were currently housed at 59 bridging hotels across the country, it said. ', 'They were served notice by the Home Office to leave by the end of August.', 'Councils had a ""proud history"" of stepping up during humanitarian crises, said Mr Davies, but the acute shortage of housing and the short timeframe was making the situation ""extremely challenging.""', 'About 8,000 individuals and families who fled Afghanistan were staying in 59 bridging hotels in the UK, the LGA said', 'In August 2021, thousands of people fled Afghanistan after the Taliban took back control of the country. ', 'Veterans Minister Johnny Mercer promised ""generous"" support in March over the plan to move Afghan refugees out of hotels, with trained staff based at hotels to provide advice.', 'He added the government would provide councils with £35m of new money to fund potential homelessness demand, along with a second round of funding worth £250m.', 'But the LGA said a ""genuine partnership"" was urgently needed to better plan how to meet housing needs. ', 'The number of Ukrainian refugee households had also more than doubled in the past six months with almost 700 now living in temporary accommodation, they added. ', 'Mr Davies will address a three-day LGA annual conference in Bournemouth from Tuesday. ', 'Hotels were not meant to be long-term accommodation for Afghans who fled to the UK and they should not be in them ""for months or years on end"", a government spokesperson said.', 'The plan, with £285m of new funding, would more them into long-term homes, they added. ']"
562,"['The new property will house families who have fled Afghanistan', 'A council is to spend thousands of pounds on a house to provide Afghan refugees with temporary accommodation.', ""North Norfolk District Council's (NNDC) cabinet agreed to buy the four-bed home, costing £315,000, with half of the money coming from the government."", 'The government has given the authority £1.2m to partially fund the purchase of 11 homes in the area, with 10 still being built for Ukrainian refugees.', 'When the Afghan residents leave, the house will be used for homeless people.', 'The location of the home has not been disclosed.', 'When NNDC agreed to take the government grant, some councillors criticised it for not contributing enough, as it only covered about 40% of the cost of the 11 homes.', 'The homes are being delivered in partnership with a housing association.']"
563,"['The events were part of Refugee Week', 'A city has marked Refugee Week with a parade, speakers and cultural activities.', 'More than 100 people came together in for the event in Southampton on Saturday aimed at supporting asylum seekers. ', 'Event organisers said they had been inspired by wanting to ""celebrate refugees who have brought so much to Southampton"".', 'The parade, which led to Palmerston Park, featured musical performances.', 'The celebration was opened\xa0by the Lord Mayor and community leaders, before the public could enjoy activities like writing a sign in Farsi, traditional Ukrainian tapestry, and games from Hong Kong. ', 'Southampton City Council leader Satvir Kaur spoke at the event', ""Saturday's celebration was organised by local refugee charities City Life Education and Action for Refugees (CLEAR), Southampton Action, Southampton and Winchester Visitors Group (SWVG) and Southampton Stand Up To Racism."", 'Organiser Jenny Corrick said: ""Refugees have brought so much to this country and Southampton, bringing their skills, trades, expertise.', '""We want to celebrate and also show our support for people who have been through terrible harm and hardship and had to leave their own homes [and] culture.""', 'Kennedy Inyhole, a politician from Uganda, is seeking asylum in the UK after being beaten by police', ""Kennedy Inyhole, an opposition politician with Uganda's Democratic Party, is seeking asylum after being targeted by the police, leaving his family in the country. "", 'He attended the event and said: ""I had to escape with no-one knowing where I was heading. ', '""No-one wants to seek asylum [but] I was severely beaten - I almost lost my life. I seek justice for my country and peace is what I\'m fighting for.""', 'One participant, Jenny, added: ""Refugees have brought so much to this country. ', '""Since the 1500s people have been arriving in Southampton, bringing their skills, trades and expertise and they continue to do so.""']"
564,"['Mia Suljic as a toddler arriving in the UK', 'A teacher has shared with her pupils for the first time how she arrived in the UK as a three-year-old refugee. ', 'Mia Suljic fled war-torn Bosnia in 1994 and was relocated to Newcastle with her family, where she is now head of performing arts at Benfield School.', 'Her dad was killed three months before she was born and she spent more than two years living in an active war zone until she made the North East her home.', '""Community became everything, we were embraced,"" she said.', 'The family slept for three weeks in a sports hall in Shrewsbury when they reached the UK, previously living in a refugee camp in Croatia.', 'They were finally placed in Newcastle in January 1996.', 'Teacher Mia Suljic relived her childhood to students at her school as part of Refugee Week', 'Unable to speak English when they arrived, Ms Suljic, now 30, teaches the subject at the same school she attended as a teenager.', 'She remembered being taught about the Holocaust but not having the ""confidence"" of disclosing to classmates the genocide people suffered in her homeland.', 'Ms Suljic recalled a dream she had as a teenager of playing with her brother as a child when they heard ""horrible explosions"".', '""My brother lay on top of me and dragged me under a park bench,"" she said.', '""I remember saying to my mum, \'I had this horrible dream\', and she just went white and said, \'that happened to you guys\'.""', '""When I think of how incredible my life has been since, it\'s quite sad that\'s the first thing my brain stored.""', 'Mia Suljic revealed to her students that she was the little girl in the photograph', 'The Bosnian War resulted in the death of around 100,000 people, and the displacement of over two million men, women and children. ', 'A campaign of war crimes, ethnic cleansing and genocide was perpetrated by Bosnian-Serb troops under the orders of Slobodan Milošević - former president of Serbia. ', 'Ms Suljic\'s dad - who was a non-Muslim - was killed when her mum was six months pregnant with her. She said just because he had married a Muslim it was enough ""for a target on his head"".', 'Women with a banner in June, 2023, showing pictures of the victims of the 1995 Srebrenica massacre, where more than 8,000 Muslim men and boys were executed', '""During the peak of the conflict in my town anyone who was a Muslim man or a teenage boy were being rounded up and taken into what they called work houses - but everybody knew that the people that went to these places would never come back,"" she said.', '""They came in the morning, they took him, they took all of the Muslim neighbours.', '""My dad always said that he would never step foot into what they called \'the white house\' which was unfortunately infamous for being a torture house.""', 'Her mum only discovered what had happened to him in 1997, when living in safety in Newcastle.', 'She added: ""On the very first day he was taken they had lined up these men and he had broken out of the line, grabbed a shot gun and shot some of the Serb soldiers, and shouted, \'never give up Bosnia!\'', '""He was shot dead on the spot.""', 'Desperate for news, her mum cycled a 12-mile round trip each day while six months pregnant.', '""Everybody there knew exactly who she was, exactly who he was, exactly what had happened, but they didn\'t have the heart to tell her.""', 'Mia Suljic, with some of her students, credits the school as changing her life', 'She still remembers the kindness shown by the people of Newcastle when she and her family first arrived, and the community has around 150 people living there.', ""Her story was shared during special assemblies marking this year's Refugee Week."", 'The school itself has some students who came to the UK as refugees and could not speak English.', '""Our kids are incredible here, they are so receptive of people\'s stories and there was not a second doubt in my mind that the kids would be anything but perfect,"" she said.', '""The school means so much to me, it\'s my way of making it just a little bit better by teaching the kids about other people\'s lives and what there is out there.""']"
565,"['This video can not be played', 'West Yorkshire arts collective, Mafwa Theatre, have been awarded Theatre of Sanctuary status during Refugee Week.', 'The status was granted in recognition of their work to bring asylum seekers, refugees and settled communities together through arts and music. ', 'Leeds Playhouse was the first theatre in Leeds to receive the title back in 2014. ', 'Tamsin Cook, co-artistic director of Mafwa Theatre said ""Refugee Week 2023 is all about compassion and it is so important for us to be able to spread that message"". ', ""Other events organised by Leeds Playhouse for Refugee Week included a conversation café, a 'Wonderful Women of the World' event, a clothes swap and a sing-along with their Asmarina Voices choir. "", 'Video filmed and edited by Inaya Mohmood']"
566,"['The last of the Ukrainian refugees are due to leave the MS Victoria next month', 'Edinburgh\'s council leader says Home Office plans to commission a cruise ship in Leith to house asylum seekers could turn it into a ""floating prison"".', 'Cammy Day said the city council had not been consulted on proposals to move asylum seekers onto the MS Victoria.', 'The ship has previously housed more than 1,000 Ukrainian refugees, with the last due to leave the ship on 11 July.', 'The Home Office said it had a ""statutory obligation to provide accommodation for asylum seekers"". ', 'But a spokesman added: ""Individuals are not detained and are free to come and go therefore to describe such accommodation as a prison is wrong."" ', 'Meanwhile, Forth Ports said it had no plans to house an asylum seeker vessel at the Port of Leith.', 'Ukrainian refugees to leave Edinburgh cruise ship', 'The Ukrainians living on a cruise ship in Edinburgh', 'Mr Day said the potential consequences for the city and pressures on services were ""severe"".', 'He said the council was ""extremely surprised"" to be contacted by the Home Office about their intentions to commission the ship to house asylum seekers, adding that it was ""all the more surprising given their previous advice that it would be impossible for it to remain"". ', 'Mr Day told BBC Scotland the plan was to send 700 single men to the capital, which has already has 4,000 people in temporary accommodation.', 'He added that the council had shown solidarity and support for thousands of Ukrainian refugees, along with those from Syria, Afghanistan and Sudan, and remained ""absolutely committed to supporting them in any way we can"".', 'But he said asylum seekers needed recognition, rights and support, not an ""unknown future"".', 'The council has now agreed to write to the UK government about its decision.', '""We were not consulted on this and urgently require further details from the UK government on their plans,"" Mr Day said.', '""I know the Scottish government and Cosla are in the same position and, having written jointly to the minister of state for immigration, Robert Jenrick MP, we\'ve yet to receive a satisfactory response to our questions and concerns.""', 'Refugees first started living on the MS Victoria in July 2022', 'He added: ""The potential consequences for the council in terms of the pressures on our services - and the city as a whole - are severe and, barring robust partnership discussions involving NHS, police and other colleagues, we will continue to oppose these plans in the strongest terms.""', 'He said the council believed that Forth Ports was also opposed to the proposals.', '""Many of these people have risked their lives to make it to Europe and what they need is recognition and rights, not an unknown future without the support they so desperately need,"" he added.', '""While the MS Victoria has been a place of refuge for many Ukrainian families arriving in Edinburgh, until we have adequate reassurances from the UK government regarding the welfare and ongoing engagement and support, we cannot allow it to become a floating prison for asylum seekers.""', 'Forth Ports said it has had no contact from the UK or Scottish government on the matter.', 'Chief executive Charles Hammond said: ""We would not be able to accommodate this facility at the Port of Leith as we continue to create our bespoke offshore renewables hub. ', '""We believe that the MS Victoria, which is currently berthed in Leith as a refuge for Ukrainian people, is due to depart in July.  ', '""Forth Ports has no plans to house an asylum seeker vessel at the Port of Leith.""', 'Graham O\'Neill, of the Scottish Refugee Council, called on ministers to adopt a ""more sensible and humane"" policy', 'Graham O\'Neill, of the Scottish Refugee Council, said asylum seekers would face ""huge challenges"" if they were moved onto the ship.', 'He told BBC Scotland they would not be allowed to work or access social security and would have to exist on £1.30 a day.', 'Mr O\'Neill said: ""We think people will be highly isolated, carrying a lot of trauma and seeing no ability to get out of it.', '""It is also important to remember that most people coming to the UK seeking asylum are not only coming from countries like Afghanistan, Sudan and Iran and fleeing very oppressive regimes but they are also stuck in a very long asylum backlog, often for years and years.""', 'He said the figure was currently in the region of 170,000.', 'Mr O\'Neill said: ""We anticipate that if people were put onto this ship, like in other ships, barges and ex-hotels across the UK, they are basically being institutionalised.""', 'He also urged UK ministers to implement a ""much more sensible and humane"" policy.', 'The Scottish government\'s migration and refugees minister Emma Roddick said: ""We have made clear to the UK government that vessels are not suitable accommodation for people seeking asylum. ', '""Housing asylum seekers in vessels cannot be compared with their use to temporarily accommodate displaced people from Ukraine because of fundamental differences in terms of their rights and agency.""', 'She said that while people were waiting for a decision on their asylum application there were strict restrictions on the right to work and no access to most mainstream benefits.', 'She added: ""If the UK government chooses to impose the use of the Ms Victoria to accommodate people in Edinburgh it must provide suitable funding for the council and other local devolved services like health and policing, and ensure services are provided so that people can be supported appropriately.""', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: ""The Home Office has a statutory obligation to provide accommodation for asylum seekers who would otherwise be destitute while we consider their claim.', '""The significant increase in illegal, unnecessary and dangerous Channel crossings has put our asylum system under incredible strain and made it necessary to continue to use hotels to accommodate some asylum seekers.', '""We are committed to making every effort to reduce hotel use and continue to engage with local authorities as early as possible whenever sites are used for asylum accommodation.""']"
567,"['Naqeeb Khilji, a refugee who has lived in hotels with his wife and four children since 2021, said most of the Afghan families were ""depressed and worried""', 'More than 400 Afghan refugees have been told their accommodation in Essex hotels will end in August.', 'The Home Office said they would have help to find homes, but those who did not take up the offer would be asked to vacate, and many feared homelessness.', 'Colchester Borough Council has asked the government to ""immediately extend the hotel stays"".', 'The Home Office said ""hotels were never designed to be long-term accommodation for Afghans resettled in the UK"".', ""Naqeeb Khilji's family share two interconnected double rooms - his three daughters share a double bed and he and his wife sleep in another bed with their 18-month-old son"", 'The government said, following the withdrawal of British and US armed forces from the county, more than 24,000 people had arrived in the UK from Afghanistan, external as of December 2022, including British nationals.', 'In Chelmsford, Afghans staying in a hotel received letters in May saying they were needed to ""quit"" the property by 9 August.', 'The letter said if they had not left by this date they ""will be a trespasser and the secretary of state for the Home Department, shall be at liberty to evict you from the property"".', 'How many Afghan refugees has the UK resettled?', 'How many Afghan refugees are fleeing?', 'BBC Newsround: How is the government supporting Afghan refugees?', 'There are 76 Afghan families in the county, with an average of five to six people in each, in need of permanent accommodation, according to figures from Essex County Council and Southend City Council.', 'Some families have 10 or 12 members and charities, councils and the Home Office have had to look for properties with up to five or six bedrooms.', 'A charity that works with the refugees feared that half of the 410 people at risk of losing their accommodation could end up homeless.', 'Eddie Campbell, from Essex Integration, said he thinks ""about 50%"" of refugees ""will have to present themselves homeless to their local council or one of their choice""', 'Eddie Campbell, from Essex Integration, a project which supports Afghans in hotels, said they called letting agents regarding 60-70 properties per week, but ""less than 1% will actually take a family on"".', '""[There are] a number of issues - people are not in work, they don\'t have a guarantor and the agent and landlord just doesn\'t want to take a risk,"" he said.', 'He said he thought ""about 50% of them… will have to present themselves as homeless to their local council or [another] one of their choice"".', 'How many Afghan refugees has the UK resettled?', 'Government plans to move Afghan refugees from hotels ', 'Naqeeb Khilji, 52, who has lived in hotels with his wife and four children after managing to get out of Afghanistan in August 2021, said he and most of the Afghan families were ""depressed and worried"".', 'He said he worked as a taxi driver and had tried to rent a three-bedroom property in Chelmsford, but had been told he would need three times the income and a guarantor with at least £40,000.', '""Everyone is in stress because we don\'t know where they are going to send us,"" he said.', '""Another hotel, temporary accommodation, permanent accommodation, house, flat? No idea. Everyone is worried in my family.""', 'He added that some families said they would go back to Afghanistan if they got the chance.', '""[They said] we would be happy to go back and die there, because hotel life is killing me every day,"" he said.', '""[But]I can see a bright future for my family once I get a house because I am already working.""', ""Colchester's Liberal Democrat council leader David King said the authority did not have the housing stock available"", 'In a letter, Colchester City Council\'s Liberal Democrat leader, David King, and chief executive, Pamela Donnelly, called on the Home Office to extend the hotel stays ""lest you make over 200 people homeless on 4 August"".', '""That would be a great wrong, given the promises we made as a nation,"" they said.', 'The council said it did not have the housing stock available.', 'Mr King said: ""It\'s dreadful because it betrays the original promise - we will welcome you, we will support you, we will look after you because you Afghans supported us and our armed forces.""', 'He added that ""the lack of notice is the challenge"" because ""there is only a limited supply of housing whether it is public or private"".', 'Meanwhile, Chelmsford City Council said the authority already had nearly 400 households in temporary accommodation and it could ""anticipate some Afghan families may approach us"".', '""Any additional families made homeless in our district will add to a system already under intense strain,"" a spokesman said.', 'Southend City Council said it was ""working hard, and with good success, to get [refugees] suitable places to live, both here and in other towns and cities of their choosing"".', 'Conservative councillor, David Garston, said: ""Those who are not able to fully support themselves yet, will be supported to submit a homelessness application.""', 'A government spokesman said it was not in the interests of the Afghans resettled in the UK ""to be living in hotel accommodation for months or years on end"".', 'A statement said: ""That is why we have announced a plan, backed by £285m of new funding, to speed up the resettlement of Afghan nationals into long-term homes.', '""Extensive government support is available and we will continue to do all we can to help Afghan families as they rebuild their lives here.""', 'Elsewhere in the region, West Northamptonshire Council said more than 500 Afghans had lived at two bridging hotels in its district since September 2021, 350 of whom had since found settled accommodation. ', 'Its resettlement team was finding appropriate support and accommodation for the dozens still in need of help, it added.', 'Conservative councillor David Smith said that since the announcement, 54 people had found new homes.', '""These have been a mixture of families finding their own accommodation in the private sector; supported into tenancies by the council, and direct property offers from North Northamptonshire Council,"" he added.', 'A further 30 people were expected to moved out of hotels by the end of June, the council said.  ']"
568,"['Khadeja and her family were the first Syrians to arrive in North Devon', 'Each year, Refugee Week highlights the lives of refugees worldwide. It also celebrates their achievements and actions in new countries away from their homes. BBC Radio Devon has spoken to refugees from Ukraine and Syria who have settled in the county.', 'The Homes for Ukraine scheme has enabled hundreds of Ukrainians to rebuild their lives in Devon.', 'For Olga, it is more than a new home for a while.', '""Oh, North Devon - this is paradise,"" she said.', 'Her friend Anna, who is also from Ukraine, described as ""beautiful"" the generosity of people from the UK.', '""You know it\'s amazing what British people do for Ukrainian people.', '""If I have a problem, I know people will help me,"" she said.', 'Anna praised the generosity of the British people', ""The theme of this year's Refugee Week is compassion, external. "", 'This year is the 25th anniversary of the week, which is co-ordinated by a partnership of charities including the UNHCR - the United Nations refugee agency.', 'Khadeja and her family were the first Syrians to arrive in north Devon as part of a community support programme.', '""I arrived in 2017 - November - and it was very cold,"" she said.', 'As well as the weather, she remembered the complexity of her feelings on arrival.', '""You are so happy that you are in the place where you wish to arrive but at the same time you are so sad that you\'ve left your country, your culture and family.', '""So it\'s really hard to say what you are feeling exactly. Lots of things are in your head and your heart.""', 'Olga said north Devon was a paradise', 'Khadeja now works for the Pickwell Foundation which encourages communities in Devon to sponsor refugees and support them locally.', '""Just to see the happy faces of the families when they arrive at the airport - this moment makes me so happy,"" she said.', '""They need to be looked after, cared for - and to be safe.', '""The main purpose is just looking to be safe and try to build a new future and a nice life for our children. We want them to grow up in safety.""', 'In its Global Trends report, the UNHCR suggests that at the end of 2022, as many as 108 million people worldwide had been displaced by war, persecution, violence and human rights abuses.', 'About 35 million are refugees, having crossed international borders to find safety with the greatest cause being the war in Ukraine with 5.7 million Ukrainians recognised as refugees in new countries.', 'Tmarah, a refugee from Syria, said: ""Our life is so different since we arrived in the UK - especially coming to a community we didn\'t know anything about.', '""The main thing is children settling into school, learning English and having good friends. ', '""We feel safety and happiness. Everything around us is so positive.""', 'Iryna has been supported by inclusion charity Sunrise Diversity', 'Anna, who had to leave her husband when she and her child fled Ukraine, said: ""I just want you to understand how broken I was when all this happened.', '""I had to leave everything. All my life was absolutely broken to pieces.', '""I didn\'t know where I was going, I didn\'t know who I was going to meet, I didn\'t know what country - I had no idea.', '""But as I arrived here and met all these beautiful people always helping me, always supporting me, I knew this was compassion. ', '""People are there for me - no matter what.""', 'Tmarah said she now had a new life, a new home and support learning English', 'Anna has been supported by Sunrise Diversity, an inclusion charity, based in north Devon.', 'It also welcomed Iryna, who arrived from Ukraine with her two-year-old daughter and 87-year-old grandfather. ', 'She remembers being in a supermarket where an older man heard her speaking to her daughter, recognised the language and bought the child a teddy bear.', 'She said: ""We are refugees and we saw another people who wanted to help and wanted to understand, and even wanted to say a few words of support.', '""So thank you very much for everything that you\'ve done.""', 'Hear from Iryna, Khadeja, Anna, Tmarah and Olga on BBC Sounds']"
569,"['Artists involved in the mural (left to right) Sheila from Cameroon, Swindon artist Sue Bardwell, Patricia from Spain and Clementine from Cameroon', 'A charity supporting 1400 asylum seekers and refugees has unveiled a new mural to mark Refugee Week.', 'The installation, by the Swindon-based Harbour Project, external, represents compassion - the theme of the week. ', 'Local artist Sue Bardwell worked alongside guests of the charity to create the mural.', 'Refugee Week is a global festival celebrating the contributions, creativity and resilience of refugees and people seeking sanctuary.', 'UK Refugee Week Coordinator Lara Deffense visited from London to watch the unveiling of the mural and said she felt ""overwhelmed"" by her first visit to Swindon.', ""Listen to the mural's unveiling on BBC Radio Wiltshire"", 'Lara Deffense coordinates Refugee Week UK and was at the unveiling of the mural', '""This beautiful mural which has ""we rise by lifting others"" painted on it is just so stunning,"" she said.', '""And it\'s a perfect representation of people coming together through arts and culture to celebrate each other,"" she added.', 'Ms Deffense describes Refugee Week, which is in its 25th year, as ""record breaking"" for 2023 with the most amount of towns and cities across the UK getting involved and 16 countries worldwide taking part in over 1,000 events.', 'Bristol Refugee Festival celebrates diversity', 'Surrogate families made in the wake of Ukraine war', 'Community oven to help with rising energy bills', ""Sheila and Patricia helped paint the mural and cut the ribbon to applause from a crowd of local people, Harbour volunteers, PCSO's and local councillors."", 'Sheila and Patricia, guests of The Harbour Project, cut the ribbon to officially unveil the mural', 'Sheila arrived from the Cameroon nine months ago and said the quote on the mural ""we rise by lifting others"" ties in with the theme of Refugee Week.', 'Clementine travelled to Swindon from Cameroon in October and said: ""It\'s about pride, we\'re all together.""', 'Claire Garrett, CEO of The Harbour Project, also attended the unveiling', 'The Harbour Project is based at Broadgreen Community Centre and supports 1,400 asylum seekers and refugees in Swindon.', 'Claire Garret, CEO, said that creating the mural helped those the charity supports to feel pride.', 'She said: ""The mural project has left the artists involved brimming with pride.', '""When you are waiting for a decision from the Home Office your life is so limited; what you\'re able to do and the skills you\'re able to use.', '""And people are bursting with determination to make some sort of contribution to their local community and to use their skills they want to be part of the community.', '""This is their step towards making Harbour the vibrant place that it is,"" she concluded.', 'Refugee Week runs from 19-25 June.']"
570,"['(From left to right) Choir members Abigeile Prenga, Katrin Diachenko, Alisa Klauning, Oleksandra Zverieva, and Nicole Ananchenko practice', 'Ukrainian refugee children have said the creation of a choir group in Oxford has helped them feel less alone. ', 'Musician and fellow refugee Yevheniia Diachenko set up the group in January to bring Ukrainian children together.', 'Cherwell College Oxford hosts the one-hour weekly sessions for those who fled their homes country during the Russian invasion. ', 'Mrs Diachenko said it had helped the children to ""forget about the bad things and relax"". ', '""When they sing, they show their emotions and sometimes they even cry, but in a good way,"" said the 41-year-old, who now lives in Oxford.', '""They miss their families, they miss their dads who stay in Ukraine, but they feel support from each other and music helps to heal their souls.""', 'Choir tutor and Ukrainian refugee Yevheniia Diachenko set up the choir in January', 'Mrs Diachenko had her own private vocal school in Kyiv, and said she wanted to continue teaching singing lessons when she arrived in Oxford in July last year with her nine-year-old daughter Katrin.', '""We wanted the children to feel more at home, to speak with each other and play together,"" she said.', ""Nine-year-old Katrin joined the choir because her mum runs the class, she says it's been good to make new friends"", 'Her daughter Katrin said the singing classes had helped her adjust to life in the UK after initially feeling ""really sad"". ', 'She said: ""I think art helped me when I came here and I thought that because my mummy is a singing teacher, I can do some singing too to help her.', '""The choir is really nice, I have really good friends here and I like singing.""', 'The choir group was formed in January and has performed at local events for the college', 'Katrin\'s friend, 10-year-old Alisa Klauning, said the choir has helped her feel she is ""not alone"".', '""I feel quite safe in this community and I feel that I can talk with anybody about what\'s happened in Ukraine,"" she said. ']"
571,"['This video can not be played', 'A week after the earthquakes in Turkey and Syria the focus is turning to finding shelter for people who have lost their homes.', 'The United Nations is warning that not enough aid is getting to the people who need it quickly enough.', 'Many people affected are now living in tents in camps, near to where they used to live.', 'Lots of them are children and BBC reporter Laura Bicker went to speak to some of them and to find out what they need.', 'Find out more:', ""'We're raising money to help people in Syria and Turkey'"", 'Turkey-Syria earthquake: Ways to help']"
595,"['The university has been running the tournament for three years ', 'Keele University is holding its third annual football tournament for refugees and asylum seekers on Thursday.', 'The tournament will see 11 teams battle it out for trophies and medals.', 'The university will also provide an outreach session, to show participants how to access further and higher education.', '""There\'s so much more to it than just having a nice game of football,"" said organiser Russell Clark.', '""It helps the refugees realise that there is support for them, that they are welcome in the community.""', ""The tournament is organised by Mr Clark, who is the head of the university's language centre, with help from local refugee charity Asha North Staffordshire, which helps to bring in participants."", 'In its first year, eight teams took part, in its second, it rose to 16.', '""This year, we\'ve got 11 teams, mainly because some of the hotels that were hosting asylum seekers and refugees have closed down,"" Mr Clark told the BBC.', 'On Thursday morning, the university will gather the teams to highlight the educational opportunities available to them.', 'Refugees and asylum seekers also attend an outreach session that teaches them about higher education opprtunities', '""A lot of them come to the UK having left behind well-trained positions,"" said Mr Clark.', '""They\'ve got skills, what they don’t necessarily have is the qualifications, or they may want to retrain.""', 'He added that the six-aside competition in the afternoon offered a ""bonding experience"".', '""The players are very keen to win this. We have some very high standard players as well.""', 'With about 25 volunteers from the university and local community helping out, Mr Clark said it showed the players that they could integrate into local society.', '""It’s nice for the asylum seekers and refugees to, in many cases, practice their English,"" he said.', '""One of the people who took part in the first competition is training to be a physiotherapist at Keele.""']"
707,"['Police had made an appeal for information on Saturday', 'A mother who was reported missing with two children has been found, police said.', 'West Yorkshire Police had appealed for information to find Barbora Dotkova, 27, who was believed to have gone missing from Bradford with her three-year-old daughter and son, aged two.', ""In the appeal on Saturday, the force said they were concerned for the family's welfare."", 'In an update earlier, external, police said she had now been located.']"
708,"['The 14-year-old was found unconscious on Dawlish beach', 'A teenager from Ukraine who went missing in Devon and sparked a search operation has died, police say.', 'Devon and Cornwall Police said the 14-year-old girl, who was a refugee living in the Dawlish area with her mother, was found unconscious on Dawlish beach after the alarm was raised on Saturday.', 'She was airlifted to hospital but later died. ', 'Police said the death was being treated as unexplained and her next of kin had been informed.', 'Officers said the Ukrainian Embassy and the Home Office had also been made aware of the death.', 'Det Insp Becky Davies, of Devon and Cornwall Police, said: ""Localised searches took place with support from the police helicopter and coastguard and an unconscious person was found on Dawlish beach.', '""She was subsequently airlifted to the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, where she later sadly died. ', '""This death is currently being treated as unexplained and enquiries continue as to the circumstances surrounding this death. ', '""Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the teenage girl at this tragic time.""', 'The force said it was hoped a forensic post-mortem examination would be carried out on Thursday.', 'Officers said they were carrying out house-to-house inquiries and attempting to secure any CCTV or doorbell camera footage as part of the investigation.']"
710,"['Three children were reported missing after a day at Thorpe Park', 'Three children who went missing after a day at Thorpe Park have been found safe in London, police have said.', 'Khandi, 14, Amelia, nine, and Malik, seven, were reported missing at about 19:00 BST on Monday after a visit to the attraction in Chertsey.', 'The group, who were all known to each other, had been on a planned day out and had travelled to Surrey from Milton Keynes, police said.', 'Det Supt Trevor Struthers said: “We appreciate the concern this incident caused, especially given the children’s ages and the fact that they were missing overnight.”', 'Det Struthers said police officers and staff had worked ""tirelessly"" to find the children and were ""all relieved"" they had been found safe.', 'He said: ""We have received a huge amount of information and support from both the public and the media, and we would like to thank everyone who provided information and shared our appeal.”', 'The children were seen walking towards Chertsey town centre at about 15:17 on Monday, police said.', 'A florist in Chertsey said she believed the children came into her store at 15:50. This was captured on CCTV.', 'Samantha Williams, who owns House of Flowers, said the oldest child, a girl, asked for directions before the group exited the shop in the direction of a nearby train station.', '“They were rushing a bit. The kids were just wandering around the shop, not distressed at all,” she told BBC News.', '“She was watching them. I got the impression they didn’t know the area.""', 'Police have not confirmed if the sighting was of the children.']"
711,"['Thorpe Park said as soon as staff were alerted safety procedures were implemented', 'Police have issued an urgent appeal for help to locate three children who are missing after a day at Thorpe Park.', 'Khandi, 14, Amelia, nine, and Malik, seven, were reported missing at about 19:00 BST on Monday after a visit to the attraction in Chertsey.', 'All three were seen walking towards Staines town centre at about 15:17, Surrey Police said.', 'It is believed they have travelled to London, Surrey Police said.', 'The children have since been found safe and well.', 'Khandi is described as slim and 5ft 2in (160cm) tall. She was wearing black or grey jogging bottoms, a white top, white trainers and black framed glasses.', 'Amelia is described as slim and 3ft 6in (110cm) tall. She was wearing grey jogging bottoms, a grey long-sleeved top with “Believe” written on it and white trainers.', 'Malik is described as slim and 3ft 6in (110cm) tall. He was wearing black jogging bottoms, black trainers and a green long-sleeved top with stripes.', 'The two youngest children are related, police said.', 'A florist in Chertsey said children fitting the description of those missing came into the store at 15:50 on Monday. This was captured on CCTV.', 'Samantha Williams from House of Flowers, said the oldest child, a girl, asked for directions before the group exited the shop in the direction of a nearby train station.', '“They were rushing a bit. The kids were just wandering around the shop, not distressed at all,” she told BBC News.', '“She was watching them. I got the impression they didn’t know the area.""', 'Police have not confirmed if the sighting was of the missing children.', 'Surrey County Council said the children do not live in Surrey and are not known to the authority.', 'A Thorpe Park spokesperson said it was continuing to support police in their investigation.', '“As soon as our staff were alerted that three children were missing after a day at the park, they immediately implemented well-rehearsed safety procedures,” they said.', '“The team worked closely with Surrey Police and CCTV footage confirmed that the children had left the attraction, heading towards Staines.”']"
712,"['Since Freddie had a stroke, Sarah Kilgariff says she has been struggling to get her son the help he needs', 'Thousands of children in England with complex needs are missing out on support as councils fail to meet care plan deadlines, BBC News has found.', 'Councils have a legal time limit of 20 weeks, in most cases, to issue an education, health and care plan (EHCP), after a parent or school asks for one.', 'BBC News has found eight councils met the deadline in fewer than 5% of cases, from April to December last year.', 'Councils say growing demand and insufficient funding cause delays.', 'An EHCP sets out the extra help a child needs to access education, on top of what is available through special education needs support. ', 'Examples of extra support might include one-to-one lesson time, or help to learn at home for those with such complex needs that school is unsuitable.', 'Sarah Kilgariff, who lives near Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, applied for an EHCP for her son Freddie last July, after the five-year-old suffered a stroke because of a complication from chickenpox. ', 'Ms Kilgariff says Freddie now suffers from fatigue, struggles to regulate his emotions, and is back to wearing nappies.', 'She says because of his needs, her son cannot attend school full-time. The family are still waiting for their EHCP - more than five months after the 20-week deadline. ', '""It\'s horrific because I can\'t do anything because it\'s out of my control, and that\'s really frustrating,"" she says. ""He\'s been neglected for a year. He\'s been completely forgotten about by the system.""', 'Staffordshire County Council apologised to the family for the delays. It said Freddie was assessed for a second time in April, after the first test in February failed to meet quality standards. It said a significant increase in requests for EHCP assessments had been made worse by a shortage of educational psychologists, and it had now recruited more. ', ""'My autistic daughter has not been in school for 10 months'"", 'Bitesize: What is an EHCP and how do I get one for my child?', 'Why do councils go bust and what happens when they do?', 'More than 1.5 million pupils in England have special educational needs or disabilities (Send).', 'The latest figures, external from the Department for Education show 517,000 children and young people were on an EHCP in 2023 - the highest on record.', 'The government has said ""high-needs funding"" for those with complex needs is rising to £10.5bn in 2024-25 - an increase of more than 60% since 2019-20. It said councils were responsible for making sure children in their area receive appropriate education.', 'However, many councils are struggling financially. In a report published in February, one in 10 councils that responded said they plan on cutting services for children with Send, to help balance their books. ', 'Conservative MP Robin Walker, who chairs the Education Select Committee, said the delays to EHCPs being issued were ""deeply concerning"". He says the EHCP system is supposed to support children to help them have an education, which is ""a basic right"". ', '""I think the design of that system is right but if it\'s not working we need to look urgently at where the investment is needed, where the changes are needed to make this system work,"" he added.', 'The BBC made Freedom of Information requests to 152 local education authorities across England. Two thirds responded with the latest data. The findings suggest:', 'At least 12 councils are completing EHCP assessments within the 20-week limit in fewer than 10% of cases', 'Of those, 8 councils are issuing plans within the timeframe in fewer than 5% of cases', 'In Essex, 9 out of 1,360 cases were completed in time between April and December last year, giving the authority one of the lowest rates. Five years ago, 66% of plans were on time', 'In Portsmouth, out of 148 cases, only one was completed within the time limit - compared with five years ago when 95% of cases were on time.', 'Both Essex and Portsmouth councils say they are working to tackle delays.', 'They say there has been a rise in requests for EHCPs since the pandemic, as well as a shortage of educational psychologists - whose advice must form part of the EHCP assessment process.', 'Cath Lowther, general secretary of the Association of Educational Psychologists, said demand had soared across England in recent years, but the workforce had not grown to match it.', 'She said many educational psychologists were leaving the profession, or working for an agency or privately - where they can better manage their workload and earn more money.', 'Kathleen Calma, who lives in Staines, Surrey, applied for an EHCP for her autistic son Elijah during the Covid pandemic.', 'She believes regularly calling her case worker and checking progress helped her get the right support for her son within 20 weeks.', 'She says getting an EHCP was ""something I really fought for"" which allowed her to get Elijah a place in a specialist school.', 'Kathleen Calma ""really fought for"" an EHCP for her autistic son, Elijah', ""Surrey's rate for getting EHCPs issued on time has dropped from 72% in 2020-21 - when Elijah got his - to less than 17% in the most recent dataset. "", 'Surrey County Council said it had seen a 64% increase in requests for assessments since 2020, at a time of a national shortage of educational psychologists. It said it was working hard to clear the backlog.', 'Data from the two-thirds of councils which provided their latest figures suggests some are far more likely to meet the deadline than others:', 'In Darlington and Blackburn, more than 80% of plans were issued on time', 'In parts of Greater London, such as Enfield and Hounslow, around nine out of 10 of cases were within the time limit', ""Barnet council's data shows 100% of plans were delivered within 20 weeks"", 'The average for England was 49.2% in 2022.', 'The data suggests Hampshire council has shown one of the biggest improvements in performance over the past five years.', 'In 2019, less than 6% of plans were issued in 20 weeks. Last year the figure rose to 73%. A spokesperson said the improvement was down to hiring more staff.', 'Dame Rachel de Souza, children\'s commissioner for England, said BBC News\' findings were ""really shocking"" in some areas, and showed the situation was a ""crisis"".', '""It\'s complicated, it\'s difficult, there are workforce issues, but nothing is more important than childhood, and a child getting their needs met in a timely manner,"" she added.', 'Louise Gittins, chair of the Local Government Association\'s children and young people board, said councils ""do their best"" to meet the time limit in the face of ""increasing demand and insufficient funding"".', 'BBC News asked 152 councils in England responsible for education and children for their data from the past five financial years, showing the number of EHCPs issued within the statutory time limit of 20 weeks.', 'We received responses from 147, including two-thirds that gave us data for the period April to December 2023.', 'Some councils were able to give us calendar years (January to December), while others gave us financial years (April to March).']"
713,"['Mark said ""alarm bells"" rang when he saw a young girl and boy boarding a late night service', 'A quick-thinking train conductor has helped return two missing children home.', 'Conductor Mark said ""alarm bells"" first rang when he spotted a girl in school uniform boarding a late night service from Manchester Piccadilly.', 'The girl, and the boy she was travelling with, had no ticket or money, so he alerted police.', 'A TransPennine Express spokesman said: ""Mark did an incredible job getting these two children to safety.""', 'Mark persuaded the children to stay on the train, which was travelling to York, until he could pass them into the care of West Yorkshire Police at Leeds Station.', ""He even gave the girl a KitKat from another colleague's lunch box as she had low blood sugar, and her companion was worried she was having a diabetic episode."", 'Mark, a TransPennine Express conductor, said: ""I\'ve only been on the railway for the relatively short period of two-and-a-half years, but in this time, I have come across and dealt with a number of missing children. ', '""If something doesn\'t feel right, then report it. Be smart and ask questions. Overall, on our network we have great support and are lucky to have BTP at a number of the stations we serve.""  ', 'Billy Vickers, head of stations and safeguarding at TransPennine Express, said: ""Mark did an incredible job getting these two children to a place of safety and I know our other colleagues would do the same.""']"
714,"['Jersey Police said overall crime in the island has fallen', 'A small number of children are costing Jersey police hundreds of thousands of pounds by regularly being reported missing, according to a new report. ', 'The Jersey Police annual report, external showed that 82 children were responsible for nearly all the missing person reports in 2022.', 'Half of those were because of just six individuals. ', 'The report said each missing person investigation costs the force more than £1,000.', '""When children go missing, particularly on a regular basis, they are potentially vulnerable to criminal or sexual exploitation,"" said the police.', '""Some are prolific offenders in their own right.', '""Just these children alone represent nearly £800,000 in opportunity cost to the policing of Jersey,"" they added.', 'The report said overall, there were 3,015 recorded crimes in the island in 2022.', 'It said this was the lowest level since 2016, with the exception of 2020, which was affected by lockdowns.', 'A third of all recorded crimes in 2022 were assaults, with a fifth of these related to the St Helier night-time economy.', 'The report highlighted how certain violent and high-harm crimes, such as domestic abuse and sexual violence, disproportionally affected women and girls.', 'Physical and sexual assaults against females made up three-quarters of the 720 crimes against women and girls in 2022.', 'Commenting on the report, Robin Smith, Chief Officer for States of Jersey Police, said the figures ""show a picture of growing public confidence in the safety of our community, borne out by significant reductions in a range of crime types. ', '""At the same time, they also highlight how new challenges are coming to the fore. ', '""Central to these emerging trends is the protection of people who are at risk or vulnerable and we are committed to playing our part in driving sustainable change that embeds community safety even deeper into Jersey\'s way of life,"" added Mr Smith.']"
715,"['Panic followed the jihadist attacks in Chiùre district forcing 80,000 people to flee - mainly on foot', ""More than 70 children are missing following recent jihadist attacks in Mozambique's northern Cabo Delgado province, the authorities say."", 'They became separated from their families as thousands fled to a neighbouring province in recent weeks.', 'There are fears that some of them may have been kidnapped by the fighters linked to the Islamic State (IS) group. ', 'Regional troops have been helping the military tackle an insurgency involving Islamist militants that began in 2017.', 'But the violence has spiked recently and the medical charity Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) says 80,000 people have been displaced since January, external.  ', ""The children were among those who fled over the last few weeks from Cabo Delgado's Chiùre district to Nampula province."", 'Chiùre, in the south of Cabo Delgado, has been a relatively safe haven for those displaced over the last few years - with the violence mainly being reported in the north of the province.', 'Last week, President Filipe Nyusi said the jihadists had deliberately targeted Chiùre to abduct children.', 'There is concern they may have been placed in training camps by the militants, the private newspaper Expresso da Tarde reports.', 'It is not clear how many civilians have died in the recent violence in Chiùre - where the army says calm has now been restored.', 'Officials say the children were lost in the panic as people fled - some have been since been found, but 72 are still unaccounted for.', 'More than 60% of those displaced by the new wave of jihadist attacks are children and 129 schools have been closed, according to a UN report.', 'It is the highest number of children to be uprooted in such a short period, Save the Children says.', '""There are repeated reports of beheadings and abductions, including multiple child victims. The conflict has already left 540,000 people displaced with more than a half of them children,"" the charity said, external.', 'The insurgency in the gas-rich province of Cabo Delgado, launched by the IS-linked local al-Shabab militia, is now in its seventh year.', 'High levels of poverty and disputes over access to land and jobs have contributed to local grievances.', 'Why IS is so hard to defeat in Mozambique', 'UN warns of rising violence in Cabo Delgado', 'Why 24 countries have sent troops']"
716,"['Ukraine estimates that 19,500 children have been deported or forcibly displaced to Russia', ""An international team of investigators say they have tracked down eight Ukrainian children, believed to have been abducted during Russia's invasion. "", 'More than 60 detectives used digital open source techniques to trace the missing children who are understood to have appeared in Russian propaganda.', ""Experts from 23 countries joined forces at Europol's headquarters in The Hague. "", 'They used advanced facial recognition to find recent images of the children online.', 'As investigators are unable to travel to Russia or Belarus, geolocation experts analysed photos and videos and used satellite data to determine where they were taken. ', 'Network data analysis was then able to establish whether multiple children were in the same location.', ""Detectives at the EU's police agency are not revealing either the identities or the whereabouts of the eight children who've been tracked down using open source intelligence, citing potential risks to their safety."", 'Ukrainian police will inform the relatives and possibly open a criminal investigation. However, Ukraine\'s liaison for Europol said the ultimate goal was ""to bring our children home to their families"".', 'The government in Kyiv estimates that at least 19,500 Ukrainian children have been deported, external and forcibly displaced from their homes to Russia and Russian-occupied territories since the full scale invasion began in February 2022, and of those only 388 have returned home.', 'The exact figure is unclear, and where they are is mostly unknown. The BBC has compiled evidence from many children who said they were separated from parents, were not allowed to go home or call their relatives. ', ""In 2023, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for the Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Children's Rights Commissioner Maria Lvova-Belova for the alleged unlawful deportation of children."", 'Russia denies the accusation and says it has protected vulnerable children by moving them from a war zone for their own safety. ', 'Maria Lvova-Belova talks of ""rescuing"" Ukrainian children and has repeatedly argued that they are free to go home. ', 'She says some 730,000 children have been brought to Russia, most of them with their parents or other relatives, and that 2,000 children were evacuated from Ukrainian orphanages, although she makes no mention of forcible displacement.', 'These children who were deported to Russia took part in a recreational camp in western Ukraine this month', 'Researchers from Yale University in the US mapped the deportation system and found that children were often placed in re-education camps or psychiatric hospitals. ', 'Russian authorities have made it easier to adopt a Ukrainian child, change their name and issue them with a Russian passport.', 'The BBC reported last year on the gruelling journeys of Ukrainians to find their children who had been moved deep into Russia.', 'Humanitarian organisation Save Ukraine has managed to rescue at least 95 kidnapped Ukrainian children and will receive the international Four Freedoms Award in the Netherlands in recognition of its achievements.', 'This month18 Ukrainian children who were transferred to Russia and then returned home took part in a recreational camp in Irshava in the Zakarpattia region of western Ukraine, organised by a foundation set up by a Ukrainian billionaire.']"
717,"['A woman has been arrested after a missing newborn baby and three-year-old girl were found. ', 'The 31-year-old was held after attending an east London police station, the Metropolitan Police said. ', 'The boy and girl were located at an address in Harwich, Essex, on Sunday and taken to hospital as a precaution.', 'It comes after a search for Jamie-Leigh Kelly, 31, who left a family assessment centre in north-west London with her children on Tuesday.', 'The Met said it was ""no longer appealing for information about the whereabouts of Jamie-Leigh Kelly"".', 'The arrested woman was also taken to hospital for precautionary checks. ', 'Police said a 63-year-old woman was also arrested at the address in Harwich on suspicion of child abduction, assisting an offender and perverting the course of justice.', 'She remains in custody at an east London police station. ', 'Earlier, police said two people from Dagenham, east London, have been charged as part of the investigation.', ""Ashley Hawkins, 52, and Jordan Hardy, 30, are due to appear at Southend Magistrates' Court on Monday. They have been charged with two counts of child abduction.""]"
718,"['Jamie-Leigh Kelly is missing with her newborn son and three-year-old daughter', 'A man has been arrested on suspicion of child abduction, as a hunt was launched for a missing mother and two children.', 'Jamie-Leigh Kelly, 31, left a centre for vulnerable mothers and children in Colindale, north-west London, with her newborn son and three-year-old daughter on Tuesday, the Met Police said.', 'The children are under care orders and were taken from the centre against the wishes of staff.', 'Ms Kelly got into a blue Ford Fiesta which then sped off, the force said.', 'Police believe the driver of the vehicle was a woman and said neither the driver nor the car had yet been located. ', 'The blue Ford Fiesta was driven off at speed, police say', 'A man in his 50s was arrested in connection with the investigation on Wednesday. ', 'He was held on suspicion of child abduction and conspiracy to kidnap and remains in police custody for questioning in Essex.', 'Ms Kelly is described as white with green eyes, slim and about 5ft 4ins (1.6m) tall. ', 'She was wearing a white long sleeved top, jogging trousers and trainers when she left the centre.', 'Det Supt Lewis Basford said he was ""extremely concerned"" for the welfare of Ms Kelly and her children.', 'Her baby boy was born in mid-September and is ""extremely vulnerable"" as a newborn, the force said.', 'Officers believe Ms Kelly is ""being assisted"" and has urged members of the public to call 999 immediately with any live sightings.', 'She has links to Thurrock in Essex and Havering, east London.']"
719,"['A total of 15 asylum-seeking children missing from hotels in East Sussex have been arrested in the past two years, Sussex Police said', 'At a glance', 'A total of 15 asylum-seeking children missing from hotels in East Sussex have been arrested in the past two years', 'The arrests were made in relation to drug offences, theft and robbery', 'They were held in London, Manchester, Hampshire, Cambridgeshire and Scotland', 'A total of 15 asylum-seeking children missing from hotels in East Sussex have been arrested in the past two years, it has emerged. ', 'Of the 227 children reported missing from hotels in Brighton, Hove and Eastbourne since July 2021, a total of 141 have been found, Sussex Police said. ', 'But 15 have been arrested including on suspicion of drug offences, possession of an offensive weapon, theft and robbery, the force added.', 'The Home Office said the welfare of minors was an ""absolute priority"".', 'The majority of the arrests were made in London, while others were made in Manchester, Hampshire, Cambridgeshire and Scotland.', 'Sussex Police said it had a dedicated unit focused solely on locating missing unaccompanied asylum-seeking children.', '“When people go missing, our primary role is to investigate the circumstances, including assessing if they are vulnerable or could have been a victim of crime,” a spokesperson said.', '“Once a person is located, where criminality is associated with either the initial disappearance or subsequent harbouring of those wishing to remain missing, Sussex Police will assess and take positive action as appropriate.”', 'A Home Office spokesperson added: “Due to the rise in dangerous small boats crossings, the government has had no alternative but to urgently use hotels to give unaccompanied asylum-seeking children arriving in the UK a roof over their heads. ', '“The wellbeing of children and minors in our care is an absolute priority and there is 24/7 security at every hotel used to accommodate them.”', 'Lauren Starkey, a social worker at anti-child trafficking charity Love146, previously said it was common for young asylum seekers to be forced into criminal activity.', 'It was announced this week that the Home Office is preparing to reopen a hotel in Hove to house unaccompanied asylum-seeking children, despite some remaining missing.', 'Brighton and Hove City Council’s leader Bella Sankey said the authority would use “every means available” to stop the move.']"
720,"['School leaders are offering incentives for pupils to attend classes', 'Nearly a quarter of pupils in north-east England have missed at least one in 10 lessons in the last year.', 'Government figures, external showed it had the highest number of ""persistently absent"" pupils in England.', 'Teachers warned students needed to return or risk irreparable damage to their education and future prospects.', 'A Hartlepool head said some parents were now less likely to send children to school after they were forced to stay away during the pandemic.', 'Mark Tilling, headteacher at High Tunstall College of Science said: ""The attitudes to education seem to have changed. Parents seem to feel \'well actually they weren\'t there for the pandemic, they\'re closing for strikes, so why is it important?\' ', '""So the message is really mixed and we\'ve got to get back to \'we want you in school, we want to educate you and for you to get your qualifications\'.""', 'Incentives such as free bagels for breakfast are being offered and the parents of missing pupils are called with staff often going to collect absent youngsters from their homes.', 'Kieron Johnson starts making phone calls to parents at the start of the school day', 'The school\'s student support officer, Kieron Johnson said: ""It\'s about trying to ensure we get as many students into school as possible, if that means one of us jumping into our cars and going to support the parents with collections to bring them in, then that\'s what we do."" ', 'Department for Education (DfE) figures suggested school attendance had not recovered to pre-Covid levels.', 'In the North East 22.8 per cent of pupils were persistently absent this year, missing more than 10% of schooling. ', 'A number of reasons have been given for pupils staying away including the cost of transport into school, as well as the increasing number of physical and mental health issues affecting families.', 'Chris Zarraga says if a child is in school they are safe from potential harm', 'Chris Zarraga, the director of Schools North East which lobbies policy-makers on education policy, said: ""Long-term deprivation in the region is one of the main drivers of this and always has been.', '""The massive increase in the North East is due to additional impacts of well-being and mental health, following on from the Covid pandemic, the impact of lockdown which has left more children anxious and not ready for the next stage of their education.""', 'Teachers said it was not just lessons they were missing, and the impact on grades and qualifications, there were also social aspects such as forming friendships and going on trips.', 'Mr Zarraga said: ""The simple fact is that children are safe within school and if they\'re not in school there\'s an assumption that they are at home and that they\'re safe, fed, watered, etcetera, but far too often they\'re not.', '""They could be out in the community, getting involved with crime or gangs. So there are many issues that school leaders are very worried about."" ', 'A DfE spokesperson said it ""remains focused on ensuring no child falls through the cracks,"" and it was working with schools and local authorities to identify ""persistently absent"" pupils.', 'It added a programme which sees mentors from the charity Barnardo\'s working with ""persistently and severely absent children and their families"" was being expanded to Middlesbrough.', 'The government says it was working with schools to help ""persistently absent"" pupils']"
721,"['The outdoor pool at Hinksey is one of four which offer free child sessions', 'Thousands of youngsters in Oxford are missing out on free swimming sessions, campaigners have claimed.', 'Leisure operator Fusion Lifestyle, which runs four pools in the city, receives £45,000 each year from Oxford City Council to provide free sessions for under-17s.', 'Parents claim the complexity of booking and lack of publicity means uptake is only 2% among eligible children.', 'Fusion said it was working to improve marketing of the scheme.', 'Oxford City Council began offering free swimming for under-17s when the previous government-funded scheme came to an end 14 years ago.', ""It currently funds Fusion Lifestyle to offer 72 sessions a week of free swimming sessions for the city's 30,000 under-17s at its pools at Blackbird Leys, Ferry, Barton and Hinksey."", 'Laura Craig Gray encountered difficulties while trying to book free swims for her two children', 'Parent Laura Craig Gray said she stumbled upon details of the scheme while ""grappling"" with its website.', '""I couldn\'t understand why I hadn\'t heard about this,"" she said. ""I spent over an hour trying to make a first booking, four separate phone calls to Fusion, so I just gave up.""', 'Having later set up the group, Family Swimming in Oxford, with other parents who had encountered the same issues, Ms Craig Gray said a snap survey found 75% of almost 300 parents in the city had never heard of the scheme.', 'It also found more than half of those who did know about it had not managed to successfully book a swim.', 'The group estimates Oxford parents have paid an extra £50,000 for swims their children were entitled to have for free.', '""What we can\'t calculate is how many thousands of children have not been swimming at all because their families mistakenly believed they couldn\'t afford it - and that\'s the real scandal here,"" she said.', 'The council admitted take-up of the scheme had been ""low since the pandemic"" and there were plans for publicity on social media and in leisure centres, as well as to streamline the online application process.', 'Fusion said users only had to show their card to access the pools once the eligibility checks had been completed.', '""We hold regular meetings to review participation numbers and are reviewing how we\'re marketing this moving forward to ensure more people are aware of the scheme,"" it added.']"
722,"['Ticket prices for the Tower of London have risen by more than 12%', 'With the cost of a day out rising, young people are at risk of missing out on important life experiences this summer, a charity has warned.', 'Go Beyond, which gives vulnerable youngsters holidays, said children could be left isolated and lacking confidence as a result.', 'Tickets for castles, historic sites, gardens, zoos and theme parks have gone up significantly since last year.', 'However, venues told the BBC they were facing rising costs themselves.', 'They say higher energy prices, rising wage bills and VAT increases mean they have to pass on some of those costs to visitors.', 'At the Titanic visitor centre in Belfast ticket prices are up from £21.50 to £24.95, a rise of 16%. Tickets for Kew Gardens in London are up more than 10% at £20.50.  And Stonehenge costs 9% more than it used to, although different price rises apply to different tickets.', 'For parents like Hannah Clarke, a single mother with two children, these higher prices make a big difference.', '""It is a massive issue,"" she said. ""It was my daughter\'s seventh birthday last week and I could only afford the entry cost of where we went because I had saved up supermarket vouchers.""', '""The trouble is they are changing that scheme, so the vouchers won\'t go as far as they used to soon.', 'Hannah uses vouchers to cover the cost of days out', 'Hannah said she is trying to be ""more strategic"" about day trips now, looking for free places to visit, and ones that are closer to her home in Rutland, so she can make lunch before they set out.', '""It isn\'t just the ticket cost but the price of an ice cream when you get there,"" she added.', ""Money Diary: 'When the kids are off you spend more'"", 'Why are prices rising so much?', 'Who can get 30 hours of free childcare? ', 'Michele Farmer, chief executive of Go Beyond, told the BBC that rising prices could lead to some young people becoming isolated from children their own age, which could have a ""negative impact"" on relationships, wellbeing and self-esteem.', '""It would be easy to take for granted just what a difference having those simple childhood experiences can make to a young person,"" she said.', '""Giving children space away from the worries and pressures they face at home gives them the opportunity to grow in confidence.', '""As this summer approaches millions of families who have never had a holiday, now won\'t be able to afford even the simplest days out,"" she added.', 'According to a survey by Barclays, 52% of the 2,000 people it questioned think tourist sites are pricier now than they were prior to the current squeeze on family budgets. ', 'Two-fifths of those say they are less likely to spend money visiting these places as a result. Just under a third say that if they do visit attractions, they are less likely to spend money on extras like food, drink and souvenirs.', 'The Tower of London says it is offering more for visitors to see', 'BBC News contacted 15 of the leading paid-for tourist sites in the UK. Most of those that responded said they had put up prices, some by more than the overall rate of inflation, which is just over 10%.', 'Titanic Belfast said it had made the decision to raise prices based on comparable products and that the venue regularly opened its doors to local people, who were less likely to be able to visit normally.', 'Tickets for the Tower of London go up from £29.90 to £33.60 this year, a 12.3% increase. Historic Royal Palaces said this rise coincided with an increase in what was available to see at the site, and that it was increasing its free and subsidised access at the same time.', 'The Royal Horticultural Society said it had had to pass on some costs, raising ticket prices for its gardens by an average of 6.4% this year, but it had introduced a £1 entry scheme for those on the lowest incomes, it said. Kew introduced a £1 ticket in January 2022.', 'The National Trust said it had raised prices for adult entry to Bodnant Gardens in Wales from £14 to £15, an increase of more than 7%, to cover the rising costs of lighting, heating and conserving the places in its care.', 'Cardiff Council and Brighton Pier were the only attractions to say they had not put up either entry fees or ride wristband prices.']"
723,"['More than 140,000 schoolchildren in England were officially ""severely absent"" in the summer term of 2022, according to official Department of Education figures - and the number of these pupils, missing at least 50% of classes, is growing. ', 'They are away from school for a variety of reasons - including anxiety and mental health, special educational needs and disabilities. But, like me when I was growing up, some of the children are likely to be extremely vulnerable. ', ""Many of them stopped attending school during the pandemic - to never return. And now, they are not really on anyone's radar. "", ""I know how important school becomes when home isn't safe, because I was that vulnerable kid. My childhood was something to survive, with abuse the consistent feature of my early years."", 'I grew up in a Derbyshire village called Inkersall, and I still remember how it felt to walk through the doors of my small primary school each morning. ', 'My body would unfurl - shoulders loosening, chin emerging, fists opening.  ', 'From 08:45 to 15:25, I could press pause on the violence and chaos at home. A weight would lift and - while it was temporary, lasting only until the bell rang - I gobbled up those seven hours of relief.    ', 'Back at home, I worried and panicked constantly. I wet the bed, wet my pants. ', 'What did the tone and tenor of his voice mean for me? What did it mean for my mum? Could we protect our dog - Sweep - from his boots? Would I vomit? ', ""And here's what happens when you don't have to worry about these things - when you're fed, looked after, and encouraged - you simply get to learn.  "", ""Terri White: Finding Britain's Ghost Children - from BBC Radio 5 Live"", 'School saved journalist Terri White - she wants to know why so many children are missing from the classroom.', 'Listen here on BBC Sounds', ""What would have happened to me if I'd been stopped from going to school? If I had risked being around too much, triggering a temper. That the men who hurt us and threatened to do us serious harm - my mum's partners - could have done something way worse."", 'As I moved into adulthood, I was able to build a different life for myself. ', ""I went to university. I became a journalist. I eventually ended up editing magazines. But without school, absolutely none of this would've been possible. "", 'Education gave me everything I now have. ', 'I thought about this a lot when schools closed indefinitely as part of the first Covid-19 lockdown.   ', ""Vulnerable children could still attend school, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in March 2020, but I immediately feared that many wouldn't, and that some would be withheld from school.  "", 'Now, there are 134% more ""ghost children"" than before the pandemic, according to analysis of the government figures by the centre-right think tank, the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ). The number of severely absent children in autumn 2019 - the last full term before lockdown - was 60,244. The latest figure, from summer 2022, was 140,843.', ""I needed to investigate what was happening to kids today and why school wasn't the salvation for some of them, like it had been for me.  "", 'Family photo of young Terri on a toy dog', ""In the Radio 5 Live and BBC Sounds podcast series, Terri White: Finding Britain's Ghost Children, I travel across the country to find out where these kids are, why they're absent and what is being done to address the issue."", 'I also went back to my hometown, hoping that a journey into my past may shed some light on what kids face in the present.   ', ""Unlike some kids, the classroom wasn't a place I was desperate to escape every day. Instead, the piles of books, stacks of paper and pots of pens were my escape. They were a portal to another world. Another life."", ""I have long wondered what would have happened to me if I hadn't had school. "", ""The worst-case scenario was something I'd considered - especially when it came to the years spent under the same roof as the most violent man. The one we escaped by fleeing to a refuge for six weeks."", ""That worst-case scenario came true for a child during that first lockdown - Arthur Labinjo-Hughes. The six-year-old from Solihull who loved school but was kept at home when classroom doors started to reopen across England in June 2020. Arthur's father, Thomas Hughes, gave teachers a series of excuses for the boy's absence."", 'Arthur Labinjo-Hughes died in June 2020', ""What the father didn't want the school to know was that his son was being tortured and abused - and had been for months. Nine days after the boy should have returned to classes, Arthur died. He had been assaulted by his father's partner, Emma Tustin. "", 'School made me believe that not only was I protected within its grounds - but also that I was worth something, I could be something, I could be someone. ', 'I was lucky. I was supported by wonderful teachers - none more so than Mrs Webley, my teacher in junior school. ', 'I was in her class when me and my mum ran to the refuge. And it was Mrs Webley who called in social services one day when something was clearly awry at home. ', ""I'd always known that she'd had a hugely positive part to play in my life as a schoolkid, but when I reunited with her on my trip home, I realised quite how protected I had felt in her classroom. "", ""Before my visit, she'd sent me a letter."", 'Terri was reunited with her junior school teacher Mrs Webley', '""You seemed to know that the only way out of poverty for a woman was education,"" she wrote. ', 'And somehow, I did. ', 'I think that knowledge could only have come from her. The knowledge that life could not just be different, but safer. And that her classroom, if I worked hard, was the portal to that place.', ""It's knowledge - rather than just a gut instinct - that tells those of us born into disadvantaged circumstances that we have a mountain to climb to get anywhere close to parity of opportunity."", 'Today, disadvantaged kids are significantly over-represented in school absence figures. The CSJ analysis reveals that children who receive free school meals or have special educational needs are three times more likely to be ""ghost children"" - while those with an education, health and care plan are five times more likely. ', 'The Children\'s Commissioner for England, Dame Rachel de Souza, speaking at the Education Select Committee hearing into absence in schools on 7 March, rightly called school absence ""one of the issues of our age"".', 'But there is hope. There can be change. ', 'I saw it for myself when I travelled to Barrow in Cumbria to meet Caroline Walker, headteacher of Parkside Academy, a school in a deprived area that had long struggled with absence.', ""Ms Walker told me she had spent the morning rounding up the kids who'd not turned up for school. Literally climbing through a window to rouse the parent of one absent boy - before getting the child to school, and his dad smartened and sobered up."", 'The headteacher runs breakfast clubs so kids can eat, helps parents with employment, and works to understand every family dynamic playing out in her school.', ""She's part teacher, part social worker, part superhero. "", 'But we need more than remarkable individuals going above and beyond. ', 'A family photo of Terri as a little girl', ""The recently abandoned School's Bill for England presented a great opportunity - particularly around the creation of a national register that would help track all children, including those not on a school roll."", ""Dame Rachel De Souza has also called for real-time data, so that problems with absence can be recognised and dealt with immediately - as opposed to the current situation where there's a significant lag with figures."", ""But these are first steps. Once we know where all of our children are, those who aren't receiving a proper education at home and should be in school need to be helped to re-join the education system. "", 'In the absence of the Bill, backbench MPs are now looking at how they can progress certain individual elements, including - according to a CSJ source - legislation for a Children Not in School Register.', 'The vast majority of children are in school and learning, says a Department for Education spokesperson. ', '""We work closely with schools, trusts, governing bodies, and local authorities to identify pupils who are at risk of becoming, or who are persistently absent… working together to support those children to return to regular and consistent education.""', 'The spokesperson did not specifically address severely absent children - those missing at least 50% of school. ', ""There really is no more time to waste. As each year passes, that's another year of education a vulnerable child is losing - that thousands of children are losing. "", 'And perhaps most crucially, children whose lives could be saved by the simple act of walking through those gates and going to school every day. ', 'Shoulders loosening, chin emerging, fists opening.']"
724,"['Police raided the home of one of the shop owners and found more items and £6,000 in cash', 'Children who have gone missing from asylum seeker hotels in England have been found working in Manchester\'s ""counterfeit street"", police have said.', 'The chief constable of Greater Manchester Police said a handful of missing children had been found working for Cheetham Hill crime gangs.', 'Stephen Watson said his force had shut down 79 shops and seized 254 tonnes of fake goods over the last three months.', '""We have a nexus of organised crime in that part of the city,"" he added.', 'An operation began last year to target criminal gangs who deal drugs, run counterfeit shops and control prostitution on Bury New Road near HMP Manchester which has been nicknamed ""counterfeit street"".', 'Mr Watson said Cheetham Hill had attracted hundreds of illegal immigrants both adults and children.', ""The children found by the force's Operation Vulcan are now under the radar of social services."", 'Mr Watson explained: ""The first our partners in social services hear about these children is when we present them to social services.', '""It is egregious and is an affront to all of us which is why we are so challenging with Vulcan.""', 'Police have carried out a series of raids over the last three months across the Cheetham Hill area of Manchester', 'Mr Watson said every case of a missing child was concerning, adding: ""It is a manifestation of the great problem facing our country.', '""What we have seen in Cheetham Hill is some of these adults and children have been taken in by organised immigration crime and their labour has been exploited for various reasons.""', 'He added: ""Our Operation Vulcan has a very rigorous, very assertive approach to clamping down on something which frankly has been a problem in Cheetham Hill for many years.""', 'Police seize 20 tonnes of counterfeit goods in raids', 'Twelve people left locked inside bogus goods shop', 'Four arrested in suspected counterfeit goods raid', 'The chief constable said counterfeit goods were a front for serious and organised crime.', 'He said: ""We have a nexus of organised crime groups working out of that part of our city and they are drawing in and exploiting vulnerable people.', '""They think they are here of their own volition, but they might as well be kidnapped because by the time they arrive very often they are in debt bondage to people who have arranged to traffic them and they are then held to pay off a debt.""']"
725,"[""Riley's dad Bob was in the Army for 22 years but has now left and is training to be a teacher"", 'When I was growing up, I had to say goodbye to my dad every week. ', 'He once missed my birthday, because as a staff sergeant in the Royal Corps of Signals, the Army always had to come first. ', ""I'm 12 and as a BBC young reporter I wanted to highlight what life is like for children who have parents in the armed forces."", 'I also wanted to ask whether service children have the right support to cope with the disruption that comes with army life.', 'I go to school in Pembrokeshire but I was born in Germany in 2010 when my dad was stationed there.', 'My dad, Bob, spent 22 years in the Army, including two tours of Afghanistan. I have two younger sisters and a younger brother. ', 'My mum, Sarah, often had to cope with us all on her own when dad was away.\xa0', 'Riley missed his dad when he was away from home', 'When I was younger, I was often left bewildered when dad went away, and later, I would notice that he had to miss our birthdays and other important events. ', 'Dad left the Army in 2020, but the experiences I had growing up have stayed with me. ', 'Army urges young people lacking confidence to join', ""Does size matter for Britain's shrinking Army?"", 'An organisation called SSCE Cymru (Supporting Service Children in Education) helped to put me in touch with other service children in Pembrokeshire.\xa0', 'Haverfordwest High VC School is an impressive new school, which has about 1,500 pupils. ', 'More than 50 of the pupils have links to the armed forces, either through parents who are active members of the armed forces or who are veterans. ', 'Riley interviewed pupils at Haverfordwest High after winning a BBC competition to be a young reporter', 'I got to speak to some of the kids who attend a special club at the school which helps support them.', 'Gracie, 12, had two parents in the Army, but they have left. She was born in Gibraltar. ', '""It has been really hard when my dad\'s had to go away,"" she said. ', '""He\'s gone to Canada for six months before and he\'s missed my seventh birthday before, and we\'ve had to move around a lot, so that\'s been really hard. To go to a different school and different countries a lot and try to make new friends.', '""You wake up in the morning and you expect to see both your parents there but they\'re not, one is away. It\'s just sad because you sometimes wonder what\'s going on and are they OK. You\'re always wondering if they\'re OK.""', ""Emma's mum is in the Army and until she was nine, she had to go away every other week."", '""I was in a constant cycle of saying goodbye,"" she said.', '""By the time my mum was home for the weekend and I could see her again, she was tired and it was late at night by the time she came home. ', '""Now my mum works once a week in the Army, but it\'s still really weird because I don\'t know what day she\'s going to be home. ', 'Caden, 12, has to say goodbye to his dad every week from Sunday until Thursday evening.\xa0', '""It\'s kind of upsetting when he goes, because you don\'t know what time he\'s going to be back, and you don\'t know if he\'s got back OK,"" he added.', ""Leo's stepdad lives in camp, so he does not see him as often as he would like."", '""I did miss him now and again, because I always used to go on his motorbike,"" he said.', '""Now he\'s in camp, I can\'t really have those experiences anymore. I didn\'t really speak about that, when he went away, to anyone.""', ""SSCE Cymru's Jo Wolfe said forces children often needed more help with their school work"", 'SSCE Cymru estimates there are at least 2,000 children in 600 schools in Wales who either have parents in the armed forces or are veterans.', 'The organisation, which started in 2014, helps schools cater for the needs of children whose lives are disrupted by the uncertainty of armed forces life.\xa0', 'Jo Wolfe, who is the participation lead officer for the organisation, was a forces child herself and now her husband is in the Army.', '""We reach out to the schools that have even one or two service children,"" she said.', '""We have lots of pockets in Wales where there are higher numbers because there are lots of stations in Wales. ', '""We have lots of army children in Brecon, we have lots down here in Haverfordwest, because of the 14th Signal Regiment. ', '""We have lots of RAF children in the Valley (on Anglesey) and in the Vale of Glamorgan. We also have a navy community in Cardiff.""', 'She said forces children often needed extra help with their school work.', '""Schools apply for an MOD (Ministry of Defence) grant which is called an Education Support Fund,"" she said.', '""From that, they can then filter down what individual need a child needs and if there are gaps in learning because of moving around so often. ""', 'Riley wanted to find out more about what life was like for other forces children', 'At Haverfordwest High VC, there is a dedicated club for forces children, but it is clear everybody copes in their own way.', 'Caden said he prefers discussing any worries he has with family members, while Leo enjoys making programmes with Haverfordwest High Radio as a way of coping with the absence of his stepdad.', ""Riley's dad admits he did not realise the impact of his absences on his children"", 'Emma Richards, who is part of the service pupil liaison team at Haverfordwest High, said help was always available to the 52-plus armed forces at the school. ', '""I organise revision clubs, after school sessions, arrange transport home. I do notice in school, I can tell if something is going on, because I\'m with the children daily. ', '""If dad\'s on the move, they\'ve got the Lifeforce Google page, which they send me messages on.""', 'Emma said there were positive elements to being an armed forces child on occasions.', '""We get to opportunities to go on other trips the rest of the school don\'t. It\'s nice knowing we can go to the club and do this stuff that we might have missed out on when we were little,"" she said.', ""Riley's dad Bob left the Army as he missed family life"", 'Back home, I discussed my visit to the school with my dad. He admitted going away was really hard for him too, and ultimately, it influenced his decision to leave the Army after a successful 20-year career.', '""As a soldier with children you\'ve almost got to be a little selfish at times,"" he said. ', '""It\'s a sad thing to say, but when it came to your birthday, I had to not think about it, as it would have made me more sad than I was at the time.', '""I probably didn\'t realise the impact it was having on you. When you entered this competition (to be a BBC young reporter), since then it has made me think about \'actually\' could I have done more as a parent to try and help you\'?""', 'He told me that missing out on parts of our childhood was a major reason to leave the Army: ', '""I think I started realising it was having an impact on you and your brother and sisters. I wish the Army had done more to post me home, to be honest.""', 'Dad is now training to be a primary school teacher and does not regret leaving the Army.', 'When I asked the pupils of Haverfordwest High whether they would consider a career in the armed forces, Emma and Gracie said ""maybe"". ', 'Caden said his first choice would be to play international rugby. Leo said it was not something he wanted to do anymore.', 'As we tucked into our buffet at Haverfordwest High, I have to say, I agreed with Leo.\xa0', ""Having been separated from a loved one as a child, it's not something I would like to experience again as an adult.\xa0I have decided I will not be following my dad into the Army.""]"
726,"['Gillingstool is one of 11 schools in South Gloucestershire without a cook to prepare hot dinners', 'Parents and teachers are concerned pupils are not consuming the fuel and quality nutrition they need because there are no cooks to make hot meals.', ""Hundreds of children in South Gloucestershire are missing out on hot lunches as the council's catering arm, Integra, struggles to recruit staff."", 'One parent said she had noticed her children had less energy since school meals became more restricted.', 'Integra said it had recently hired five new staff members.', 'Currently 11 schools are on a reduced menu, an increase from November when seven schools were going without hot lunches. ', 'Head teacher Caroline Carter said she wanted the situation to be sorted as quickly as possible', 'Head teacher Caroline Carter, from Gillingstool Primary, near Thornbury, said a school meal might be the only hot meal some children will eat.', '""That\'s our concern, that the children aren\'t getting the nutritional value they need,"" she said.', '""The children are getting quite fed up with it now.""', 'The only options the school has been able to offer on its menu for the last two weeks were a selection of sandwiches and baked potatoes with beans.', 'Pupil Adam told BBC Points West: ""It\'s annoying because we have the same thing every day.', '""We don\'t get that many vegetables. Only some days we get cucumber.""', 'Parent Marcia Commons said she thought the children needed more to eat during the day', 'A third of the children at Gillingstool are eligible for free school meals.', 'Some parents are fed up too, because they still have to pay the same amount for the food provided.', '""A sandwich, a yoghurt and a piece of fruit is not a substantial meal,"" parent Marcia Commons said.', '""To expect a child to go through a six-hour school day on that and stay focused... I just don\'t think that\'s enough.""', 'Parent Hannah Amin said her children ""are definitely more hungry when they come home"".', 'Hannah Amin said her children had less energy when they came home since the hot meals ended', 'Integra has 17 vacancies and said it had 13 members of staff off work with sickness - representing a quarter of its staff.', 'In November it had 23 vacancies.', 'South Gloucestershire\'s Cabinet Member for Corporate Resources, Ben Burton, said: ""We\'re not that dissimilar to other leisure facilities and restaurants and those types of businesses, who are having real difficulties trying to recruit staff.', '""We\'re doing absolutely everything possible to make sure every child in the district still has a decent school meal.""', 'Integra said the five recently hired staff members had yet to be allocated to their new schools.']"
728,"['About 200 children, mostly Albanian teenage boys, remain missing from hotels housing asylum seekers, the immigration minister has said.', 'Robert Jenrick told MPs that of 4,600 child asylum seekers who had arrived in the UK since 2021, 440 had gone missing and only half had returned. ', 'He said it was ""extremely concerning"" but added he had not seen evidence the children were being abducted.', 'Labour\'s Yvette Cooper accused ministers of a ""dereliction of duty"".', 'The shadow home secretary said there was ""a criminal network involved"" in taking the children away from their accommodation and that the government was ""completely failing to stop them"".', '""They are letting these gangs run amock.""', 'Urgent talks sought over missing migrant children', '116 child migrants on missing list from UK hotels', 'She urged the government to crack down on the gangs and end its contracts with hotels from where children had gone missing. ', 'She also expressed concern about the lack of clarity over whether the Home Office or local councils were legally responsible for the children. ', 'Mr Jenrick said he had not been presented with evidence that children were being abducted but would continue to make enquiries adding: ""I am not going to let this matter drop.""', 'He acknowledged there was ""a challenge"" about the status of the local authorities in this area but said the government\'s overall objective was to ensure young people were only kept in the hotels ""for a very short period of time"". ', 'He told MPs that 88% of the children who had gone missing were Albanian; 13 of the children were under 16; and one of them is female.', 'He said the government had no power to detain unaccompanied asylum-seeking children but the police and local authority were ""mobilised"" to find missing children to ensure their safety. ', 'Caroline Lucas - a Green MP in Brighton where some of the children are thought to have gone missing - accused the Home Office of ""staggering complacency and incompetence"".', '""This feels like the plight of girls in Rotherham who were treated like they didn\'t matter,"" she said, in reference to the widespread child sex abuse in the Yorkshire town.', 'Ms Lucas raised the matter in Parliament following a report in the Observer, external that children had been kidnapped from a hotel in Brighton and Hove.  ', 'Another local MP - Labour\'s Peter Kyle - said the missing children were being ""coerced into crime"", adding: ""Just last year Sussex Police pursued a car that had collected two children from outside this hotel.', '""When they managed to get the car to safety they released two child migrants and they arrested one of the members who was driving it - who was a gang leader who was there to coerce the children into crime.""', 'The government has come under pressure recently to reduce the number of asylum seekers staying in hotels.', 'Asylum seekers are often accommodated in hotels while the Home Office decides whether they can stay in the country.', 'This is a lengthy process, and recent delays in decision making, as well as a big rise in the numbers arriving in the UK, has caused a rise in the numbers kept in hotels. ']"
729,"['Figures for migrants crossing the Channel in small boats have risen steadily', 'Brighton and Hove City Council has requested a meeting with Home Office ministers over missing child asylum-seekers from a hotel in Hove.', 'It follows an Observer report, external that children had been kidnapped - claims denied by the Home Office.', 'Sussex Police have told the BBC 76 children remain unaccounted for.', 'Councillor Hannah Allbrooke, deputy council leader, said: ""I\'m requesting an urgent meeting with ministers again, having requested it before.""', ""The Home Office has said it is the local authority's duty to protect children, but the council has said responsibility for the safety and welfare of youngsters lies with the Home Office."", 'Ms Allbrooke said the council first raised concerns with the Home Office about the use of hotel accommodation in July 2021, adding: ""They told us in a letter a few weeks ago that they [the hotels] were going to be closed by February.', '""In the meantime, we sit there with children in what I believe, and what I\'ve continued to believe is an unsafe situation.""', 'Sussex Police said since the Home Office began housing asylum seekers in hotels in Brighton and Hove in July 2021, 137 unaccompanied children had been reported missing. Of those, 60 had been found and 76 remained under investigation.', 'Police had received no reports of people being kidnapped from hotels, but last May officers were told that two children had got in a car which was later stopped on the M25, with two men subsequently arrested on suspicion of trafficking. ', 'Ms Allbrook said: ""It is true that there have been children going missing. The responsibility to find those children lies primarily with the police, but the responsibility for the safety and welfare of those children, we have been repeatedly told, has been [with] the Home Office.""', 'In a statement, the Home Office said local authorities had a statutory duty to protect all children and to work with other agencies, including police, when a child went missing.', 'It said: ""Ending the use of hotels for unaccompanied asylum seeking-children is an absolute priority, and we have robust safeguarding procedures in place.""', 'The Labour Party has demanded an urgent investigation.']"
730,"['More than 100 unaccompanied child migrants remain missing after disappearing from UK hotels over a 14-month period, data reveals.', 'BBC News has discovered that 116 children disappeared between July 2021 and August 2022, after temporarily being put in hotels by the Home Office. ', 'Charities fear the children, some as young as 11, risk being exploited.', 'The Home Office said it had ""no alternative"" but to use hotels while long-term accommodation was found.  ', 'The government has been placing children who arrive in the UK in approved hotels since July last year, after local councils said there was not enough capacity to house them in suitable accommodation.  ', 'Some 1,606 children who arrived alone between July 2021 and June 2022 were placed in hotel accommodation by the Home Office, according to its own figures.', ""BBC Two's Newsnight discovered that 181 children - aged 18 or less - subsequently went missing in the 14-month period covered by the data, which was released by the Home Office following Freedom of Information requests. But 65 were later found."", 'How many migrants cross the Channel in small boats?', 'Children among migrants crossing English Channel ', 'The charity ECPAT UK said the number of missing children was ""shocking"" and called on the government to stop placing them in hotels.', '""They could be working away in a cannabis farm, in a factory, domestic servitude. There\'s a whole range of exploitative situations that these young people could be in,"" said its chief executive, Patricia Durr. ""They could be being criminally exploited or sexually exploited behind closed doors.""', 'Rishan Tsegay, who arrived in the UK from Sudan on the back of a lorry aged 17 and has since been granted asylum, says she fears some of those missing children could end up in the hands of the traffickers who brought them into the country.', '""They [traffickers] like to manipulate young people and make them do things when they get here. I wouldn\'t doubt that. This is nothing new,"" she said.', '""They might say if you go to this place you have to pay us back, otherwise I will kill your mum, or your family. How are you going to respond?"" she added.', 'The Home Office said it was seeing an ""unprecedented rise in dangerous Channel crossings"".', 'It said: ""On average, unaccompanied children seeking asylum are moved to long-term care within 15 days of arriving in a hotel, but we know more needs to be done. ', '""That is why we are working closely with local authorities to increase the number of placements available and offer councils £6,000 for every child they can provide accommodation for.', '""Any child going missing is extremely serious, and we work around the clock with the police and local authorities to urgently locate them and ensure they are safe.""', 'The Local Government Association, which represents councils, says it is ""working tirelessly to find suitable placements for unaccompanied children, with 597 placements made in the past six months"".', 'While it said placements were increasing, it also called on the Home Office to stop using hotels. ""Councils have expressed concerns to the government around the impacts on children, including the risks around children going missing,"" it added.', 'In July, the Home Affairs Select Committee reported that the disappearance of separated migrant children from hotels was ""extremely concerning"".', 'It said the government must ""immediately and clearly confirm where responsibility lies for every aspect of safeguarding children housed in accommodation"". ']"
