,0
0,"['Jameela Jamil has become the latest celebrity to call out Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.', 'The star didn’t hold back when criticising Sunak’s controversial anti-strike laws and also hit out at Home Secretary Suella Braverman and Priti Patel over their anti-immigration stances.', 'Jamil, 36, said on Friday: ‘I cannot stress this enough.. F**K RISHI SUNAK. Unelected, out of touch, right wing, T****R.’', 'Posting her views as a text image on Instagram, Jamil raged: ‘Trying to stop people from being able to strike in a country that his twat government have absolutely buggered… is dictatorship, not leadership.', '‘These people are striking because their jobs don’t pay enough for them to SURVIVE. This billionaire clown wants to silence them. We cannot let that happen.’', 'She captioned her furious image: ‘PAY. AND. PROTECT. THE. PEOPLE. WHO. KEEP. YOUR. COUNTRY. FUNCTIONING. A. LIVING. WAGE.', '‘Stop blaming immigrants. Can’t we send suella, priti and rishi to Rwanda instead? It wouldn’t even hurt them to be called an embarrassment to Asians because three coconuts have never been more desperate to assimilate to white people in their lives.’The She-Hulk star concluded: ‘Pick me, bigoted, fascist dogs. Direct your rage at the government abusing the human and working rights of the people who keep you safe and running, not the people striking for their safety and survival.', '‘BEFORE IT BECOMES ILLEGAL TO DIRECT ANY RAGE AT THE GOVERNMENT.’', 'Earlier this week, Sunak unveiled new anti-strike legislation that will ensure ‘minimum service levels’ in sectors like rail and the NHS, which have seen recent strikes over pay and conditions.', 'Announcing that the government plans to introduce the law in the coming weeks, the legislation will mean bosses in sectors including health, rail and education can fire employees if minimum working levels aren’t met.', 'Meanwhile, Braverman has faced heavy criticism over her Rwanda deportation goal.', 'The home secretary has consistently expressed her determination to see through mass deportations of asylum seekers to Rwanda, a move that was recently found to be lawful by the high court.', 'Following last month’s ruling, Braverman confirmed in parliament that deportations would commence ASAP, saying: ‘I spoke with my Rwandan counterpart, Vincent Biruta, and we both confirmed our joint and steadfast resolve to deliver this partnership at scale as soon as possible.’', 'Patel is famed for her harsh immigration rhetoric and was the architect of the Immigration and Nationalities Bill, which stripped asylum seekers of many protections.', 'Jamil’s post also comes amid a crippling cost of living crisis that’s affecting tens of thousands of people up and down the UK.', 'In December, The Guardian reported that over 700,000 people in England and Wales are living in homes without central heating this winter, with Holly Holder, the deputy director for homes at the Centre for Ageing Better, saying: ‘The number of homes without central heating in England is truly shocking. We have among the worst and least efficient homes in western Europe and often it is older people who have to reside in these subpar properties.', '‘The life and death implications of this are really being seen now as we enter the bracing cold of mid-winter at the height of a cost of living crisis.’', 'Jamil’s post comes days after another famous actor hit out at Sunak, with Simon Pegg lambasting the PM’s compulsory maths move.', 'In a now-expired video posted to his Instagram Stories on Wednesday, the Shaun of the Dead star said: ‘So, Rishi Sunak, our unmandated, unelected Prime Minister twice removed has decided that it should be compulsory for children to learn maths up until the age of 18. What a p***k!’', 'Pegg, 52, continued: ‘What about arts and humanities, and fostering this county’s amazing reputation for creativity and self-expression? What about that?’', 'The Mission Impossible actor added: ‘What about the kids that don’t want to do maths? I hated maths! I dropped maths as soon as I could. I’ve never needed it other than the skill set I acquired at the age 12.’', 'Signing off his post, Pegg said: ‘No, Rishi Sunak wants a f*****g drone army of data-entering robots.', '‘What a t****r! F**k the Tories! Get rid of them, please. F**k! F**k you Rishi Sunak and f**k the Tories!’', 'Got a story?']"
1,"['As they step onto British soil, the early Windrush Generation arrivals begin a legacy that\xa0would help\xa0revitalise a nation depleted by years of war.\xa0', 'Wearing their Sunday best as they answered the UK government’s call to rebuild the country, men,\xa0women\xa0and children\xa0arrive\xa0on a ‘journey of hope’.\xa0', 'Some had already been to the UK to serve during the Second World War, while others were setting foot in the ‘mother country’ for the first time. But they all carried high hopes after what has been described as the ‘hardest journey in their lives’; a break not just with their homelands, but with their previous identities.', 'The arrival of the HMT Empire Windrush\xa0from the Caribbean\xa0is being celebrated nationally in the 75th year since the former\xa0German\xa0troopship pulled into Tilbury dock\xa0in Essex.\xa0', 'The arrival\xa0provided\xa0the defining\xa0images\xa0of post-war migration from the\xa0islands\xa0which filled labour shortages and helped shape\xa0multi-cultural\xa0Britain.\xa0', 'Disembarking 802 people who had bought cheap tickets for passage from the\xa0West Indies, the ship’s arrival followed a call\xa0from the British government for Commonwealth citizens to plug the workforce gaps, and their achievements would include a vital role in\xa0establishing\xa0the then fledgling\xa0NHS.\xa0', 'Those\xa0shown wearing\xa0their best going-away gear\xa0in the black-and-white images\xa0include passengers\xa0on the Windrush\xa0as well as the liner SS Begona, which operated across the Atlantic. ', 'Finely\xa0turned-out\xa0young men, wearing their\xa0best\xa0suits, ties and shoes, crowd round for a picture taken during\xa0the Windrush’s disembarkation on June 22, 1948, the ship having arrived the previous day.', 'In\xa0another\xa0picture, a small boy dressed in a\xa0collared\xa0shirt\xa0carefully holds a guardrail and\xa0a\xa0girl’s hand as they walk down a gang plank\xa0in Southampton.', 'Behind him, a girl dressed in a\xa0smocked\xa0sailor dress beams\xa0as she takes in\xa0the\xa0new surroundings.\xa0', 'There are also\xa0signs\xa0of\xa0apprehension\xa0and dislocation among the newcomers.\xa0A young\xa0girl\xa0looks\xa0pensive as she is shown\xa0wearing a duffle coat and gloves to guard against the cold\xa0while\xa0waiting patiently to disembark the Begona with a party of more than 400 people\xa0on March 6, 1962.\xa0', 'She is pictured five months before the Commonwealth Immigrants Act, which placed restrictions on Commonwealth passport holders hoping to live in\xa0the UK, came into force.\xa0', 'Sisters Veronica and Velveta McGregor, wearing\xa0matching\xa0fascinator hats, appear more comfortable\xa0as they\xa0take\xa0tea on a train\xa0on their way\xa0to meet their dad\xa0in London.\xa0', 'The\xa0pioneers\xa0would\xa0become known as the Windrush Generation, a term used for\xa0people from the Caribbean who sought better lives in the\xa0UK\xa0between 1948 and 1971.\xa0', 'The\xa0portfolio of 37 pictures, telling the Windrush story before, during and after arrival in the UK,\xa0forms\xa0a free outdoor\xa0and online\xa0exhibition run by Autograph, a visual arts charity\xa0based in Hackney, east London.\xa0\xa0', 'Professor Mark Sealy, the group’s director, said: ‘When selecting the photographs for\xa0Journeys to Hope, we wanted to widen the narrative of the Windrush journey, to place an emphasis on the women, families and children who made these important voyages and their first steps arriving in Britain. ', '‘It’s more than a single moment, the images in our collection selected for this project span the years between 1938 and 1962.’', 'The Windrush brought one of the first large groups of West Indians to the UK, a cohort described as ‘citizens of the British Empire coming to the mother country with good intent’ by a Pathé reporter at the time. ', '‘It’s important to remember that the Windrush generation were\xa0invited\xa0to Britain, to help rebuild in the aftermath of the Second World War,’ professor Sealy said. ', '‘This was a journey of hope: to a better future for themselves and their families, and to help create a better future for the country and all the world’s citizens after the defeat of fascism.’', 'The\xa0absorbing images, taken from archives held by\xa0TopFoto,\xa0have also been\xa0given life\xa0by the late professor Stuart Hall\xa0in quotes\xa0accompanying\xa0the exhibition.\xa0', 'The cultural theorist\xa0describes\xa0‘people sitting on their luggage waiting to be met’, while others hope to see ‘a friend or an unexpected relative or even just for an acknowledgement from a friendly face amongst the crowds with their bulging suitcases and straw baskets’.\xa0', 'He sketches a scene of ‘men, women and children already battened down against the freezing weather by the ubiquitous wearing of hats’.\xa0', '‘These people have just survived the longest, hardest journey in their lives: the journey to another identity,’ the professor says. ', '‘They are people “in transition” to a new state of mind and body: migrant hood… ', '‘They have torn themselves up by the roots… half the family is left behind and nobody knows when or whether they will ever be united again.’\xa0', 'Many of those shown making a bright\xa0entrance into British life, including RAF veterans who had served in the war, would be met with racism and intolerance.', 'Today,\xa0campaigners are still fighting for\xa0compensation\xa0in the aftermath of the Windrush scandal, where members of the generation were targeted for\xa0immigration enforcement\xa0as a result of\xa0the\xa0‘hostile environment’ policies under\xa0previous\xa0Tory governments.', 'Victims found themselves wrongly denied access to\xa0healthcare\xa0and housing, with some being detained and deported despite being longstanding UK residents.', 'The pictures\xa0and stories, which are held in Autograph’s permanent Collection of Photography,\xa0capture\xa0the early movement of the willing that is\xa0credited\xa0with helping to turn Britain into a diverse society.\xa0', 'The 75th anniversary year was kickstarted on Tuesday with a host of prominent figures paying tribute to the pioneers and their contribution to society.', 'Patrick Vernon\xa0OBE, convenor of the Windrush 75 network,\xa0has\xa0called for the\xa0milestone to be celebrated at a national level on a par with the Queen’s Diamond Jubilee in 2012.\xa0']"
2,"['That – as well as lack of access to education – is why my family and I had to flee our home country over 20 years ago. There’s not a day that goes by when I don’t think about the impact of this on my life today.', 'My family and I are Bahá’ís – which is a worldwide religion that believes in the unity of mankind, unity in all religions, the fundamental equality of the sexes and the harmony between religion and science. At the moment, this is more needed than ever.', 'I was born in 1990, but even from a young age, I could understand the political restrictions placed on people like me. From confiscation and destruction of property to denial of employment, government benefits, or civil rights and liberties.', 'Then, at school, my older brother was expelled numerous times for being a Bahá’í and I was continuously singled out by teachers. It seemed to be a tireless campaign to incite hatred against us.', 'Our faith dictates that education is a vital part of life, so when there was no way for my brother and I to continue with our studies, my parents decided to do something about it. In order for us to have a chance in life, we would move to the UK, where some of our family were already living.', 'We left Iran in 1998 – when I was eight – to go to Turkey, one of few countries at the time that didn’t require a visa. My father couldn’t come with us, so he stayed behind to pack our lives down because, having two children and living in Iran all your life, you can’t just get up and leave – this might’ve raised suspicions.', 'Another reason why he didn’t come was because we felt we had more of a chance of being granted asylum without him. This decision showed me from a young age that people are more caring towards woman and children, and often the plight of asylum-seeking men is ignored or demonised.', 'When a boy passes the age of 18, he suddenly becomes this figure that you can’t sympathise with. It’s felt that men should get on with their lives in whichever country they come from, but my question is, why don’t they have the right to have feelings? Why don’t they have the right to also feel the problems going on in their countries? Why are the emotions of male refugees disregarded?', 'So my father gave his ‘permission’ for us to leave. I say permission because, under Islamic law in Iran, women are not allowed to fly out of the country without the written permission of either their husband or father – among a long list of other restrictions women face.', 'For me, being eight years old, it was not a huge adjustment. But I imagine that for my mum and my 16-year-old brother, it was very difficult. To leave an entire life behind is not easy for anyone.', 'We arrived in Istanbul and stayed with family friends we had there. I remember we stepped off the plane and my mum removed her head scarf. I was so shocked that I began asking a tidal wave of questions about why all of a sudden she was allowed to uncover her hair in a public place.', 'We were there for a few weeks and then we had to move onto Ankara, where we were able to declare ourselves as refugees to the UN in order for them to help us to get visas to come to the UK.', 'From that point onwards, the timings of things were deeply unpredictable. There was no way of knowing how long it would be – whether it was going to be a week or five years.', 'We ended up living in squalor for 18 months – sometimes on the floor of friends’ houses or mostly in the basements of apartments, as they were cheap. It was a year and a half of waking up to never knowing what the situation was going to be – of being just on the other side of oppression waiting for our freedom to begin.', 'The irony was, we moved to get higher education but I couldn’t attend school for almost two years.', 'In 2000, at the age of 10, we were finally granted asylum in the UK. Of course, we were delighted by the news because our lives would no longer have to be in limbo and it would mean a fresh start.', 'Unfortunately, my dad didn’t come over until about seven years later. It took a long time for his visa to be granted – it was probably a lot harder for him because he was alone. My dad had to go through twice as much as my mum to prove that he had children, that he had a family in the UK and that he had an equal right to be here.', 'When we got to the UK, we stayed with my grandfather in Essex for about five months, and then with my aunty until we eventually rented somewhere to stay. There were so many wonderful and beautiful things to explore and some of the most hospitable and kind people to meet.', 'One of the key differences was how the Bahá’í community could flourish.', 'I am hugely grateful for the safety we were given because it allowed me to go back to school, even though I had almost two years less education than I should have. I also didn’t speak a word of English so primary school was very difficult because I couldn’t talk to anyone to make friends.', 'I did an extra year of primary school and my English got a lot better, so I moved on to secondary school with the hopes of making friends. That’s what I really yearned for – after all this time – I really just wanted to blend in.', 'Then the way I saw myself suddenly changed. I found that I still didn’t fit in and it made me think the reason for that was because I was Iranian.', 'I felt like there was an automatic stigma that came with that at this point in my life – you’re instantly associated with terrorism, Al Qaeda or something negative. This led me to doing everything in my power to distance myself from my heritage.', 'The only time I ever spoke Farsi was at home with my parents. Even with my brother, I spoke English. This has sadly left me with a limited vocabulary in Farsi to this day.', 'At university – where I studied film – I was beginning to feel at ease with who I was and where I came from. This is because I realised there are more people with different views than the ones that I’d grown up around.', 'This exploration of identity really consolidated itself in lockdown, where I was able to recognise that, not only had I been robbed of my own culture – who I really was, what Persia really stood for – I was robbed of the true experience of growing up in my homeland.', 'I met my wife, Róisín, in 2017 on a film set in Barbados. We connected on so many levels, creatively and spiritually, which is not something you find often these days.', 'Although it was originally Róisín who tried to ask me to marry her, Covid-19 sadly scuppered three of her planned proposals, which led me to jumping in and asking her. We got married in June 2022 in Blanes, Spain.\xa0', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tUnusual.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'Over the years, I have often been asked by many friends, ‘What nationality do you see yourself as?’ Like a deer in headlights, I’d puzzle what the answer was.', 'So, with both my wife and I being filmmakers, she urged me to start writing stories that would bring this culture I had buried inside me back to life.', 'I have a passion to discuss cultural diversity, write stories, create short films and eventually feature films that will hopefully come to shape the perception of how other people – not just in the UK – see each other.', 'In fact, I just completed a short film entitled Don’t Mock The Donkey, which is about a refugee who is washed ashore and finds himself in the body of a donkey, then captured by a man who tries to sell him for labour as a packhorse.', 'At the end of the day, my family left Iran so we could continue our studies.', 'Education can bring so much great change – it’s what allows us to build big cities, fly thousands of feet in the air, and communicate with friends and family hundreds of miles away in just seconds.', 'By supporting education for everyone, you’re allowing communities to prosper and evolve equally. That’s the main message I want to share.', 'Refugees like me should not be classified in terms of what you are, but rather how you’ll help change the world for good.', '(Main picture credit: Matt Easthill)']"
3,"['I kept seeing one criticism in particular: ‘I thought this was The Great BRITISH Bake Off’. This was clearly in relation to myself being from Poland, Sandro from Angola, Syabira from Malaysia, Maxy from Sweden, Abdul from Saudi Arabia and Maisam from Libya.', 'While these comments are hurtful, I think having six contestants out of 12 being immigrants is a wonderful representation of the multicultural society the UK has become.', 'Still, living in the UK is a dream and I’m proud of how far I’ve come – not just in the Bake Off tent, but throughout my life.', ' Wake up to find news on your TV shows in your inbox every morning with Metro’s TV Newsletter.', 'Sign up to our newsletter and then select your show in the link we’ll send you so we can get TV news tailored to you.', 'I grew up in the city of Sosnowiec in Poland.\xa0', 'When I was born, Poland was still a communist country. This changed when I was just a year old, then the country slowly entered into a democratic system – though the benefits of this were slow to be seen for most.', 'As a child, our televisions were bombarded with advertisements of the latest toys and gadgets, but a majority of the population weren’t able to afford these luxuries. To this day, I still remember how badly I wanted a Furby but my mum had to explain that we couldn’t afford it.', 'With that said, we focused on what we did have available to us – family and good food from our homeland. My best childhood memories involve spending time in the kitchen with my mum, who taught me to cook and bake, and then being around the dinner table with my whole family to enjoy the food together.', 'While I have fond memories of Poland, as I grew up and realised I was gay I knew that it wasn’t the place for me to live my most authentic life. It’s no secret that the general attitude towards the LGBTQ+ community has always been negative in the country.', 'In the last few years, around 100 local authorities across Poland – the equivalent of nearly a third of the country – passed resolutions declaring themselves LGBT-free zones. It just blows my mind how a country that went through so much in World War Two can lack empathy and compassion for people today.', 'I am lucky to have the most supportive, understanding family and since coming out to them at the age of 28, I have been fully embraced and loved. But living in Poland, I never felt comfortable sharing my sexuality with people around me so I would keep this part of my identity a secret, except for a couple of close friends.', 'While I always knew that I would leave Poland eventually, my decision to come to the UK was spontaneous.', 'In 2012, I was looking for a new job in Poland and a mistake on a job website – advertising a healthcare job in Poland I applied to – actually turned out to be for a position in the UK.', 'The company offered to pay for my flights and accommodation and although it seemed scary to leave in such a rush, I knew this was my chance. I got on the flight and the minute I stepped off the plane and saw such diverse people walking among me, I knew I didn’t have to hide who I was anymore.', 'And I have not – even for a second.', 'I’ve always thought of the UK as a land of opportunity, but when I look back over my time here, the position I’ve found myself in now is nothing I could have dreamed of.', 'I have lived in England for more than 10 years and I have a partner, Simon, who I’ve been with for five years. Together we have a sausage dog called Nigel.', 'I work in digital healthcare and Simon and I have just bought our first home together in Brighton – the most LGBTQ+ friendly place you can imagine. While all of these things have brought me happiness, nothing will compare to the day I opened a birthday present from Simon.', 'What should be inside but my very own rainbow-coloured Furby!', 'Just when I thought my life in the UK couldn’t get any better, I got a phone call to inform me that I was chosen to be a contestant on this year’s The Great British Bake Off.', 'Despite some initial negativity online, my time on the show was overwhelmingly positive and the love and support I have received and continue to receive has been exactly the same.', 'Filming Bake Off was the most fun, joy filled experience you could imagine. Everyone is so kind and happy to be there that it radiates throughout the tent.', 'The only moment I felt the pressure baking inside the famous tent was in episode one. It was all so new! That’s when Dawn kindly took me to one side and reminded me that I’m just baking a cake in a tent in a field, which brought me back to (a surreal) reality and allowed me to go on to win ‘Star Caker in the Bake week’!', 'â\x80\x9cI just wanted to tell you I won Star Caker in Bake Weekâ\x80\x9d ð\x9f\x98\x82Oh Janusz, never change! â\x9d¤ï¸\x8fâ\x9d¤ï¸\x8f #GBBO pic.twitter.com/H8JTOfkK8i', 'I was the first full Polish national contestant to appear on the show across all 13 seasons and this was a position I did not take lightly.', 'As a chubby, Polish, openly gay man, I knew I had a lot to represent walking into the tent and I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity.', 'Sending all the love there is #gbbo pic.twitter.com/9klCzuLt5l', 'I have received thousands of messages from people from the Polish community thanking me for representing our country, or from fellow LGBTQ+ people, too.', 'But the messages most special to me are the ones I’ve received from fellow LGBTQ+ Polish nationals still in hiding, thanking me for giving them hope in their own situations.', 'This included an older gay man who has been keeping his sexuality a secret for 13 years and a young trans woman who is secretly saving to move to the UK herself – they both thanked me for representing them in a way they’d never seen before.', 'I really hope that things progress in Poland for people like me.', 'More importantly, I hope that those living life in secret like I did growing up know that there is a whole world out there waiting to embrace them.', 'Moving to the UK was the best decision I have ever made, and I want to take this opportunity to thank the British public for embracing me.', 'You gave me a home where I can be celebrated for being myself and I’ll always be grateful for that.', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', 'Nail the Western style come festival season with this Free People-inspired jacket', ""'Extremely good' Morrisons wines under £13 you need to try this summer"", '‘Like sleeping on a cloud’ hail shoppers as £12 mattress protector scores glowing reviews', 'Main picture credit: Adam Ceramic']"
4,"['Even though I was only eight, I felt painfully aware that I was different to others.', 'It began on the playground in Leipzig when I was taunted for being Jewish. Then on the way home from school, I would see copies of the Nazi propaganda newspaper, Der Stürmer, with cruel cartoons depicting people like me as an evil that needed to be eradicated.', 'My mother, sister and I – unfortunately my father died when I was younger – heard reports of concentration camps and there was a real atmosphere of fear among Jews sweeping through Germany. Everyone could feel something bad was about to happen to us.', 'So when I was awakened in the early hours of 28 October 1938 by Nazi officials banging on the door of our family home, I suppose it shouldn’t have come as a huge shock.', 'Nevertheless, it was terrifying.', 'As my mother shook me, I rubbed my eyes wondering what was happening and she told me to quickly get dressed. Behind her stood three armed officials in Nazi uniforms barking orders.', 'Me and my 11-year-old sister grabbed a few possessions, as they made it clear we would not be coming back. Then we were marched to a local police station where we were put on a bus with other Polish Jewish families.', 'I looked around as we drove, and could see everyone was fearing the worst as we were taken off the bus and man-handled onto a packed train. There were people of all ages and I remember some were carrying babies. As I studied fellow passengers, I suddenly realised that there were sick people among us and some had been taken from hospital beds.', 'The sun had come up now and as we passed other train stations, my mother recognised that we were going eastwards. It was dark by the time we arrived at a small town on the border between Germany and Poland.', 'We were ordered off the train and organised into rows of four by SS officers before they began to march us in the direction of a forest.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tHolocaust Memorial Day remembers the six million Jews murdered during the Holocaust, alongside the millions of other people killed under Nazi persecution of other groups and during more recent genocides in Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia and Darfur.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'The SS men had torches but we had to walk in the dark along an uneven forest path and some would stumble or fall from time to time. A few collapsed, but the SS men would not let anyone stop and kept driving us forward with bayonets.', 'It was at this point that I was certain I was going to die. I felt sure they were taking us into the forest to shoot us all.', 'But they didn’t and we would later learn they were carrying out orders by the head of the Gestapo for the expulsion of about 17,000 Polish Jews living in Germany at the time.', 'As we came to a railway line – which I now know was the border – the SS officers stopped and said they would not be going any further. They ordered us to carry on walking in the dark between the rails and we stumbled on in terror before crossing ploughed fields as we headed towards some lights in the distance.', 'We eventually reached a hamlet where someone must have alerted the Polish police because it wasn’t long before they came and took us away. Now we were completely in limbo and rejected by the Polish government.', 'Thousands would stay in refugee camps on the border for many months, but I was fortunate to escape before the Germans invaded Poland and got to Britain under the Kindertransport scheme.', 'My sister and I were among approximately 10,000 children who were saved and we arrived in the UK in July 1939, just before the war started. My mother had managed to get to France, where she survived the war in the Vichy zone.', 'I stayed with a foster family in Coventry with my sister, where we would go on to experience the bombing raids that became known as the Blitz.', 'At one point, I can remember two bombs landing within 50 yards from our house. They blew all our windows out, along with the front and back doors. Part of the roof was blown off too. I was frozen with fear.', 'This was a difficult time and I was still a young child separated from my mother in a country where, at first, I couldn’t speak English and no one seemed to speak German. The sense of isolation was overpowering and, for a time, I genuinely felt lost.', 'But in my heart, I knew I was fortunate. I knew lots of people had no chance and not one of my 22 relatives in Poland survived. They were all killed by the Nazis.', 'Sadly, I was never properly reunited with my mother because of the effect that her war experiences had on her and we were never able to live as a family again.', 'But even though the Nazis tore our family apart, I counted myself lucky because of the opportunities that Britain offered me. Once I learned English, I thrived at school and was able to get a scholarship to go to grammar school.', 'I then studied chemistry at the University of Birmingham and would later work in this industry and then lecture at the University of Leeds. My sister married and had a family, and she is still alive today.', 'When I retired at 65, I was fortunate to be introduced to Holocaust Centre North – an exhibition and learning centre that helps schools and communities learn about survivors’ experiences – and I have made lots of friends with other survivors who escaped Nazi Germany.', 'I’ve also done many talks with schools and I’m always encouraged by the young people I meet who ask lots of intelligent questions and have a genuine appetite to learn.', 'It saddens me when I see so many conflicts going on in the world today and the war in Ukraine is another senseless tragedy. Whenever I see the news or read about war, it always affects me.', 'These are not just statistics or a faraway story to me. They are human beings, just like me and you.', 'And although this is always upsetting, I’d like others to really think about it instead of changing the channel and forgetting about it. That’s why it’s so important to keep history alive and for people to feel our stories rather than just hear them.', 'Holocaust Memorial Day should be the wake-up call that reminds us what discrimination, racism and hatred can lead to – and that’s why history always resonates in the present.\xa0', 'I remember reading history as a child and a lot of it felt abstract and remote. If young people today see the Holocaust in these terms, then it will fade from memory and that’s what I fear the most.', 'Because if that happens we will never learn and keep making the same terrible mistakes.', 'You can discover more stories like Martin Kapel’s at Holocaust Centre North in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire.']"
5,"['I’ll never forget the day I treated dozens of severely burnt people – mostly children – in distress.', 'It was 2013 and I was visiting one of the field hospitals I’d helped build in northwestern Syria when an incendiary bomb was dropped on a school, injuring and killing tens of people – mostly children.', 'The makeshift ambulances herding streams of patients wailing in agony felt like they’d never stop coming.', 'The hospital wasn’t properly equipped to fully treat them all, so my colleague Dr Saleyha Ahsan and I did the best we could – administering pain relief, bandaging burns and resuscitating where necessary.', 'It was an event captured by the BBC Panorama team and later aired in the documentary Saving Syria’s Children. That day is etched on my heart, mind and soul.', 'It’s just one of the reasons why I do the work I do as a doctor originally from Syria, but now living in the UK.\xa0', 'As a child, I recall playing with my Barbies and Sindys and insisting on performing life-saving surgery on them.', 'For me, growing up in Syria was the smell of jasmine on my grandmother’s balcony, biting into the most delicious falafel sandwich and walking around the winding cobbled streets of old Damascus.', 'It was running joyfully around the fields my family farmed in rural Homs – where my dad was raised – with dozens of my cousins.', 'This was my childhood until I was 12, when my family and I moved to the UK in 1992 for better work and education opportunities.', 'When we first arrived, I hardly spoke any English. At school, my teachers thought my GCSE grades weren’t good enough and advised me to apply for chemistry or biology – both of which I excelled at – instead of medicine.', 'Despite this, I ended up graduating from medical school in 2003 and started working as an intensive care doctor shortly after.', 'Then in 2011, peaceful protests in Syria were calling for freedom and dignity. As the revolution swept across the country, the brutal regime met it with bullets and bombs – so began the war that goes on to this day.', 'I was enthralled and terrified in equal measure. I was inspired by the people from my home country demanding their freedom and dignity, yet terrified at the response they would get and what it would mean for my family and Syria as a whole.', 'As a doctor in London training to be an anaesthetist at the time, I did the only thing I knew I could and joined the humanitarian effort.', 'Alongside my full-time work in the NHS, I started to work every evening and weekend to raise funds – from friends and colleagues or holding events – collect medical supplies and help build field hospitals and clinics to treat injured civilians via Skype with Syrian medics on the ground.', 'My holidays became medical missions through the newly formed Syrian-led charity, Hand in Hand for Syria.', 'As a volunteer and then the medical director, I travelled to northern Syria to carry out needs and quality assessments, support the build of six of our hospitals, deliver medical and humanitarian aid and carry out clinical work.\xa0', 'After the bombing incident in 2013, and for a long while – instead of jasmine – Syria became the smell of singed flesh.', 'Despite the horrors I witnessed, I also saw the best of humanity – the health and aid workers who risked their lives every day to save others. They still inspire me and make me more hopeful than ever.', 'It didn’t hit me immediately, but in the years after, I realised trauma had taken up home in every cell of my body. I finally hit a wall after 10 years of dedicated work as a doctor, humanitarian and founder of CanDo – an innovative humanitarian start-up supporting locally-led humanitarian work and local frontline health and aid workers in war-affected communities.\xa0', 'I fell into a valley of darkness. I felt incredulous that I was still advocating to stop bombing hospitals and schools. I also felt lost, trapped and confused. I could no longer see my sense of purpose and self-worth.', 'On the journey to recovery, I realised my burnout was a mountain of undealt with grief and heartbreak. It was all the painful emotions, thoughts and images that I had swallowed down, as well as distracted my way through until I was an expert at disconnecting from my emotions and their impact on my body.', 'It was both a personal and collective trauma.', 'There is a part of me that wants to paint you a picture of a ‘successful’ migrant or wants to encourage other young people who maybe find themselves where I was. But that part of me is no longer insecure. I know I am worthy and don’t have a thing to prove – to myself or others.', 'Though I am now able to own it all, by the grace of God, it remains the case that I would swap every achievement and accolade to not have my country shattered in a million pieces.', 'To not have lost over 30 members of my extended family. To not see the rampant poverty and homelessness. To not have had our fields napalmed. To not have seen so much grief, shock and horror on so many faces.', 'I would swap it all to not have witnessed the worst of humanity.', 'Being a doctor is tough – whether you’re in Aberdeen or Aleppo.', 'It is noble and sacred work driven by wanting to save lives. But sadly, it often asks us to sacrifice our own health, wealth and happiness.', 'Closer to home, we will continue to burn out on the frontlines, to have a workforce calamity and a health service on the brink of collapse until we all realise that the health of our patients is intrinsically linked to the wellbeing of the health workers themselves.\xa0', 'That is why I wholeheartedly support the recent nurses strikes.\xa0', 'We need to put the oxygen mask on ourselves first, otherwise we will be no good to anyone. This isn’t selfishness, it is our highest act of love and compassion.\xa0', 'I have now been a doctor for 19 years and am so grateful to God that I can say I have helped build six hospitals through working with Syrian charities for 12 years – including one hospital that was crowd-funded – helping over 4million people in war-torn Syria, according to my own impact data.', 'For a long time, I worked every day, evening, weekend and holiday. I thought looking after myself was selfish.', 'I now know from falling into an abyss of burnout and trauma and coming out again – by the grace of God – that I was 100% wrong. It is in fact selfish to not look after yourself.', 'You must prioritise your health and wellness, because you can’t heal if you are deeply wounded and you can’t save lives if you are broken.', 'Look after your health: body, mind, heart and spirit. Only those alive and well can save lives.', 'To this day, I remain not only hopeful, but firmly believing in beauty and possibility that we humans are capable of.']"
6,"['As he left for the UK from Syria, Bashir (not his real name) made a promise to his mother: He’d pay back every penny of her life savings.', 'Bashir, in his 20s and a young leader for the refugee rights charity Safe Passage, is seeking asylum in the UK. Money woes are something he knows all too well.']"
7,"['When they first told me about it, I felt horrible because no one should have to face discrimination or racism.\xa0', 'I come from a beautiful place, but there are lots of problems – mostly as a result of government corruption.', 'Bills are extremely high in Albania and people get desperate. There is organised crime everywhere and some are under threat because of this – gangs might want to kill them for money.', 'For women, sometimes their husbands treat them badly – they force them to work in modern slavery. Some are forced into sex work.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'As for me, my ex-husband was abusive and an alcoholic, but the police did not protect me. The thing is, I couldn’t go to the police station to make a report because there was corruption. My husband had too many friends working there so I couldn’t trust them.', 'So I knew I had to take my two daughters and flee to the UK.\xa0', 'My friends helped me to get in the lorry and we made the journey in stages – there were several men with us too.', 'How to get out was the most difficult thing because the driver didn’t know we were inside. We had to jump off the lorry when the driver stopped for some food and I was afraid we would get injured.', 'Luckily, one of the other men did it first and he helped my daughters to emerge safely. When we arrived in the UK, I was like, ‘OK, now I can breathe normally.’', 'After that, I searched on my phone for a police station near me and I went there with my daughters. I was worried, but the police were very kind and nice. This is when I claimed asylum.', 'We stayed at the police station until late at night and then the Home Office put us in a hostel.\xa0', 'Unfortunately, I still don’t have my asylum status yet.', 'When I came here, I felt safe. For my daughters, it was hard because we didn’t know anyone and we had to go to a hostel. They were young so it was difficult with that environment.', 'As an asylum seeker, I am not allowed to work, and we don’t have access to a bank account, so we can’t pay for things easily. You need bank account details for most things, like bills and internet access. ', 'For me, when I’m granted my status, I want to study because my goal is to be a teaching assistant. It might be difficult, but I hope I will achieve it.\xa0', 'A few months after I arrived, I enrolled in an English class. One day, the teacher said that someone from the Refugee Council was coming to talk about their work helping refugees and people in the asylum system.', 'When they arrived, I said that I was interested in volunteering to help. I wasn’t doing anything, so I was happy to be involved.', 'I went to do an interpreter course. Then the Refugee Council held a drop-in for people who needed advice, so I helped people there to see a GP or to find accommodation.\xa0', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tLabour leader Keir Starmer criticised the glacial pace of asylum claim processing, joking 'according to the bookies the Home Secretary has a better chance of becoming the next Tory leader than she has of processing an asylum claim in a year.'\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'I was the only Albanian interpreter locally so I ended up interpreting for them all the time. In fact, I won an award from the Marsh Trust for the best volunteer working with refugees and asylum seekers in my area.', 'Volunteering helps comfort your heart. I’ve even been an interpreter at weddings, and in court. I feel so proud.', 'Albanian women are amazing. We come to the UK where we look after children and families. Many of the friends I have met here go to work or study.', 'But it’s also tough for some Albanians. They can’t get a visa so have to work for years to pay for the journey to get here, and can be forced into illegal activity, where they are exploited and abused.', 'The Government should change the law, and make it easier to work legally while we wait for decisions on our asylum cases.', 'She added: ‘We are working to ensure Albanian cases are processed and individuals are removed as swiftly as possible, sometimes within days.’', 'But this is unfair – my experience is that many Albanians do need protection to escape from traffickers or abuse, and we want the chance to rebuild our lives and do something positive for our communities.', 'The Home Office doesn’t see what is really going on, it just hears what the Albanian government says – that Albania is a safe country – but they don’t listen to what people like me are saying.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tAlbanians in London protested on Saturday (November 12) following the statements made by Secretary Suella Braverman, who spoke of ""invasion"" due to the high number of immigrants.\n\nVideo filmed at Westminster Bridge shows protesters holding national flags with the double-headed eagle and banners in their hands.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'During a later interview, an officer told me ‘if you start crying, I will stop this interview.’ They made me feel really bad.', 'It isn’t safe for everyone. There is a big problem with the exploitation of children in Albania and the Albanian Government is not doing enough about it.', 'It’s not good to judge people because we don’t know their lives or their situation. We see their faces from outside, but we don’t know what is truly going on. We must support people who are in danger and we have to make it easier for them to get education or access English classes.', 'I want to spread the message: Albanians are not what you think. We love our families and we want to work. We want to have a normal life. We are hospitable and kind-hearted.', 'The UK itself is amazing and we are so grateful for that, but we are suffering and even dying because of crime and exploitation, and we have to find ways to help people escape from this life, and do something more positive.', 'We have to make things better.', 'I hope for safety and good health for my family. My daughters are studying and I’m studying too.', 'I hope to do another interpreting course, and maybe, once I get my status, to find some work.']"
8,"['A dozen children, including a young baby, were among at least 59 people killed when an overcrowded boat carrying migrants broke apart in rough seas off Italy’s southern coast.', 'The shipwreck took place near Steccato di Cutro, a seaside resort on the eastern coast of Calabria, the region that forms the tip of Italy’s boot.', 'Fighting back tears, Cutro’s mayor Antonio Ceraso said he had seen ‘a spectacle that you would never want to see in your life… a gruesome sight… that stays with you for all your life’.', 'Emergency doctor Laura De Paoli told ANSA: ‘When we got to the point of the shipwreck we saw corpses floating everywhere and we rescued two men who were holding up a child. Sadly, the little one was dead.’', 'Up Next', 'Manuela Curra, a provincial government official, told Reuters that 81 people had survived the shipwreck. Twenty of them were hospitalised, including one person in intensive care.', 'Interior Minister Matteo Piantedosi, who travelled to the scene, said up to 30 people might still be missing.', 'The vessel had set sail from Turkey several days ago with migrants from Afghanistan, Iran and several other countries.', 'Survivors described up to 150 people on board when it crashed against rocks early on Sunday.', 'One has been arrested on migrant trafficking charges, the Guardia di Finanza customs police said.', 'Initial reports from ANSA and other Italian news agencies, spoke of 27 bodies washed up on the beach and more found in the water.', 'Ignazio Mangione, an Italian Red Cross official, told SkyTG24 that very few of the children believed to have been on the boat survived.', 'Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni expressed ‘deep sorrow’ for the deaths.', 'Blaming human traffickers, she vowed to block migrant sea departures to prevent such disasters.', 'She said: ‘It’s inhumane to exchange the lives of men, women and children for the “price” of a ticket paid by them in the false prospect for a safe voyage.’', 'Up Next', 'Pope Francis, the son of Italian immigrants to Argentina and long a vocal advocate for migrants’ rights, said he was praying for everyone caught up in the shipwreck.', 'He told the faithful in St Peter’s Square: ‘I pray for each of them, for the missing and the other migrants who survived.’', 'The pontiff added he also was praying for the rescuers ‘and for those who give welcome’ to the migrants.', 'Italy is one of the main landing points for migrants trying to enter Europe by sea, with many seeking to travel on to richer northern European nations.', 'The so-called central Mediterranean route is known as one of the world’s most dangerous.', 'The United Nations Missing Migrants Project has registered more than 17,000 deaths and disappearances in the central Mediterranean since 2014.', 'More than 220 have died or disappeared this year, it estimates.\xa0']"
9,"['Last week, as Women’s History Month began, Glastonbury music festival released its first line-up poster.', 'While 47% of this summer’s line-up features non-male musicians (which still isn’t even half), there’s no female headliners.', 'Not a single one. And safe to say, I’m livid.', 'Last year, I went to the festival for the first time – and I’ve never felt more free. More accepted.\xa0', 'For the first time, in perhaps my life, I wasn’t harassed, catcalled or leered at for being a woman.', 'It’s difficult to describe, but Glastonbury really is a magical place, and there’s nowhere on earth quite like it. For five days, everyone is equal – they’re one big family.', 'If anything, by not prioritising women this year, Glastonbury has become another grim mirror image of the industry itself', 'Though the festival fell on the same weekend Roe V Wade was overturned in the US last year, musicians – both male and female – shouted their battlecries to fight for women’s rights. My sense of fear and distress for those who can fall pregnant in America was replaced with hope.\xa0', 'But this year, it gives me no pleasure in admitting that I’m a ticket holder after this announcement.', 'To release the news that Arctic Monkeys, Elton John and Guns ‘N’ Roses were headlining this year’s festival – with the closest woman to the top of the bill being Lizzo – this month especially, is an insult to female musicians. And to think I was once excited to see this summer’s line-up, too.', 'Women’s History Month is important. The annual event, which is predominantly (and ironically) celebrated in America but has now been adopted by much of the world, highlights the contribution of women to both historical events, and in today’s society – including in music.', 'The month also sees International Women’s Day on March 8th – a day that raises awareness of gender inequality by celebrating the achievements of women, and showcasing the discrimination we receive for our gender.', 'So, in March of all months, where are Glastonbury’s female headliners? Co-organiser, Emily Eavis, passed the buck – claiming it was ‘a pipeline problem’.', '‘We’re trying our best so the pipeline needs to be developed,’ Eavis told The Guardian. ‘This starts way back with the record companies, radio. I can shout as loud as I like but we need to get everyone on board.’', 'Except, I don’t see Glastonbury shouting for women.\xa0', 'Yes, the music industry is inherently sexist, and needs to invest more in female talent, as the all-male line-up for Artist of the Year at this year’s Brit Awards proved – but we’ve been having this conversation for years, decades, even.\xa0', 'It’s boring, and nothing new.\xa0', 'If anything, by not prioritising women this year, Glastonbury has become another grim mirror image of the industry itself. The blame lies with them, too.\xa0', 'Emily Eavis literally runs and organises Glastonbury – perhaps the most popular, most renowned music festival in the world – surely, it’s up to her to shout the loudest? Showcase female talent in the music industry by giving them to hotspots that they rightly deserve?', 'Eavis agreed that Lizzo was more than deserving of a headline spot but that it had already been ‘promised’ to someone else: to a man. I understand the need to fulfill promises as a business, but I can’t help feeling like it reeks of a sense of privilege that I’m sure will ring true with many women.', 'It’s fantastic that 46% of the initial line-up’s 54 names are non-white, or feature non-white members – but its headliners are white men, and I expected better from a festival that apparently celebrates music, diversity and the arts.', 'Yes, a major headliner – reported to be Taylor Swift – dropped out, but replace it with another. Eavis apparently wrote handwritten letters, begging for Sir Elton John to play his last ever UK show at Glastonbury, and it will be legendary, but where was that same effort when it came to booking female musicians? It’s disappointing and devastating to see as a woman.', 'According to Eavis, next year’s headliners will feature two women – with Rihanna and Madonna, rumoured to perform, but by no means does it excuse this year. It’s patronising to think that gender equality can wait just 12 more months, with the promise of ‘making up for it’ next year.\xa0', 'I admire how much Glastonbury invests in equality, I truly do, and more events should aspire to be like them – but this year’s line-up embodies all that is wrong with the industry, and it’s a damn shame for a festival that is meant to be about so much more than the music.', 'Iconic, inspiring women lead the music industry and there is a wealth of talent to choose from: Madonna, Wet Leg, Charli XCX, Florence + the Machine, Beyonce, Wolf Alice, Adele, Stevie Nicks, Dua Lipa, Megan Thee Stallion, Doja Cat, and Ariana Grande, to name but a few worthy headliners.', 'Yes, Billie Eilish headlined last year, as the Pyramid Stage’s youngest ever headliner, but it feels like Glastonbury has taken one step forward, and three steps back with this year’s pale, male and stale offering.\xa0', 'In 2020, Eavis said that the festival’s future ‘had to be 50/50 (gender split).’ With three male headliners, and 52% of this year’s line-up being men, they’ve not achieved that.', 'Just last summer, a study revealed that only 13% of 2022’s UK festival headliners were women. I dread to think of this year’s percentage, and it gives me no pleasure to say that Glastonbury, which I expected so much more of, will have contributed to the undoubtedly dismal findings.\xa0', 'Female artists have been short-changed, yet again – so much so, that I’m genuinely considering not going.', 'The next generation of female musicians need someone – something – to look up to, and I’m worried that, this summer, they’ll struggle to find it.\xa0']"
10,"['I will never forget the last day I saw my mother and father.', 'I was holding tight onto my younger sister and brother, but in the chaos, we became separated from our parents. I was 18 years old, my brother was 16, and my sister was eight. I haven’t seen my mother or father since, which was over a year and a half ago.', 'Now, I can only message her but I can’t celebrate in person. I’m waiting for the day when I can be with her again.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'After our Government collapsed, we saw white Taliban flags outside some of the windows in our area and we knew that they supported the militant group. This was a scary moment – realising our neighbourhood had these members.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tDozens of female students and teachers marched in front of the education ministry in Kabul on Saturday, protesting the Taliban's decision to shut girl's secondary schools, just hours after reopening them earlier in the week.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'On top of that, my father ran a business renting out shops in a market, which made us a target because he used to work with western companies and the Taliban wanted to take it over. My brother was at risk of violence (he had already been attacked), and I was at risk of forced marriage.', 'Some of my aunts and uncles live in the UK and they were actually on holiday in Afghanistan at the time. So we decided that we had to try and leave and we thought we might be able to get to the UK with them.', 'At the airport, there was complete chaos and huge crowds – it was very difficult to go from one section to another. I put headphones on the ears of my little sister to try and stop her hearing the shooting. But even after, she still suffered from shock.', 'In the crush – at one checkpoint controlled by the Afghan army – I was able to drag my brother and sister with me into the airport, but my parents were left outside. We were taken by the US Army forces. I was shouting and screaming that I wanted my parents with us. I was so worried about my mother because she has asthma and struggles with breathing.', 'I told the soldiers that my mum and dad were outside. But they said if I went to be with them, I wouldn’t get back into the airport.', 'So we got on a flight. We went via the United Arab Emirates, where we were able to recharge our phones and I tried to contact my family, but I couldn’t. At that moment, I felt like I had lost my mother.', 'They had been using tear gas near the airport and I worried she’d had an asthma attack. I felt completely hopeless.\xa0\xa0', 'When we got to Heathrow, I saw on the news that there had been a huge suicide attack at Kabul airport, in which over 170 Afghans died. It was a terrifying moment for me.', 'After we arrived in the UK, we were placed in a hotel. For a whole week, we had no idea where our parents were, and we had nothing to do all day apart from worry about them.', 'They finally managed to get in touch with us through my uncle’s Facebook – we spoke to them and found out they had moved because our flat had been destroyed. It was looted by people who took almost everything – TV, carpet, furniture.', 'My parents are not safe in Afghanistan. The Taliban questioned them about where we were and took their phones too. They found our numbers – mine and my brother’s – and this made them more suspicious.\xa0', 'My dad has had to change his phone number 10 times. On top of having asthma, my mum has diabetes too, but it is difficult for her to go outside to the hospital. That is because the Taliban don’t let women leave the house alone and my father can’t leave either because it is not safe for him. The whole situation is terrible – they have moved to a safer area, but everywhere is dangerous.', 'In the UK, I have taken on the responsibility of looking after my brother and sister. My little sister used to cry in the morning and say that she doesn’t want to go to school because she wants her mum and dad. I would reply: ‘Don’t worry, our mum and dad are coming. One day.’', 'When I see my sister so sad, I can’t control myself. My brother also wants and needs his parents. It’s hard living with such uncertainty.', 'After a long time in different hotels, I moved into my own home with my brother and sister in Yorkshire. It’s really tough for me. I am 19 years old now but I am like a mum to my siblings. I clean the house and cook, but I mostly stay at home and look at people outside. I have started a new course, but how can I focus on my education?\xa0', 'I have asked the Home Office to help bring my parents over and I have spoken with three or four different lawyers. They all say to just wait, but it is now 19 months since we last saw them. It’s unbearable.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tThe sound of gunfire rings loud outside Kabul airport as little children cover their ears and others run.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'My message for the UK Government is: ‘Please just bring my mum and dad over. We just need a visa for them.’ The UK Government is powerful.', 'All people should have rights, it shouldn’t matter if they came on the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy (ARAP) for those who worked with the military, or the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme (ACRS), like we did.', 'I am a human. I have pain, family, and feelings – just like everybody else. I know many other Afghan families who were separated from close family too.', 'The problem seems to be that no one feels our pain. The Government should keep its promise to help Afghan people and change the unfair rules to allow refugee children to bring our parents to safety.', 'In the future, I’d like to study and work with computers. If my parents come to the UK, I can go to college, get a full-time job and have opportunities like other young people.', 'This Mother’s Day, I hope for every family and every mum to be near to her children.', 'I hope that by this same time next year, I can be reunited with my family.']"
11,"['Then, when they set a police car on fire, my terror peaked.', 'They wanted to break the fence and come into the hotel, but thankfully police subdued them.', 'This was the night of Friday 10 February and we’d find out later that it was a riot fuelled by the far-right outside our hotel.', 'I was an engineering student in Iran.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I loved studying aerospace – I worked for years on building a drone from scratch – but the situation in the country was like something out of 1984. ', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tWhat started as a protest and counter protest escalated outside the Knowsley Suites Hotel in Merseyside.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'I wasn’t even at one of the protests – I’d just heard it was happening and was walking nearby with a friend when the security forces arrived. There were 30 armed police on motorcycles, all pointing at us with their weapons.', 'They shot us with some sort of rubber bullet that made my skin turn blue with bruising and splattered me with paint at the same time. My friend took my hand and pulled me away, but they chased us.', 'When they caught me, they pulled me by my hair to the ground and 15 of them kicked me with their boots. You feel so weak when people are attacking you like that – you can’t do anything. I still have scars from that assault.', 'Then they picked me up, but my friend and some strangers pulled my legs to try to shake me free. I was dazed, and my face was covered with blood, but somehow I managed to slip out of my jacket and escape.', 'Unfortunately, my wallet with my ID card was in my jacket pocket, so they started searching for me. They came to the beauty shop where I worked and turned up at my parents’ house.', 'This is where my problems doubled. Although I have no idea why the police picked on me, the fact is that after many years of soul-searching, I had changed my religion and, in Iran, this can be punishable by death. I’d become interested in Christianity because of its beautiful Bible verses, like ‘seek, and you will find,’ and ‘knock, and the door will be open to’ – sentences based on love.', 'In my room, they found a copy of this Christian holy book, but I was living in a country where people can be hanged for less. I didn’t have any other option but to run.', 'I crossed the border into Turkey, but this country isn’t safe for Iranians because the government has a good relationship with the Iranian regime. So I had to keep moving.', 'That meant putting my life in the hands of smugglers.', 'First, we – myself and a group of fellow asylum seekers – crossed a river between Turkey and Greece. I was very afraid because, if the Greek police catch you, they can strip you and beat you. A friend who I met on the journey told me they forced him to walk barefoot across broken glass and barbed wire.', 'But the night we crossed, it was very foggy. After that, we walked and walked – across high mountains and through forests full of thorns. One night, when we were lost, I fell and broke two of my teeth. But I had to just keep on walking.', 'Eventually we reached a town by the sea. Here, the smugglers told us to get into a boat to go to Italy. There were two of them with 90 people crammed on each – with nothing to eat or drink.', 'We are deeply distressed that a far right protest in Knowsley has led to riots. We canâ\x80\x99t imagine the terror of the people inside the hotel. Far right protestors have set fire to a police van pic.twitter.com/Cam1ABjCeM', 'The one I was in arrived in Italy, but in the sea, I heard a mother in the second one shouting, ‘Oh my God, save my child’. I felt my heart would explode with grief.', 'We never saw the boat again. I think of the kids, and I fear that they drowned.', 'Then the smugglers took us in another truck across Italy. At one point, they held us in a dirty container. They were armed and could do whatever they wanted – they raped a woman in front of her husband.', 'Eventually, they dropped us off in a town called Calais. They never said anything to us about how to apply for asylum in France.', 'Getting in the boat to the UK was really scary. There were 35 of us – including a woman with a baby – all in an inflatable dinghy that seemed like it couldn’t even withstand a half-metre wave. We didn’t have life jackets.', 'The night I crossed, I spent 13 hours adrift in the sea. For a moment, I thought we were going to drown because the waves were getting bigger and bigger and the water was coming into the boat. We had no phone signal. Thank God the British Navy found us. The first thing they said to us was ‘don’t worry, we’ve caught you’.', 'After that, I spent two days in Kent. It was a military base, but the people were kind. If you asked them for something, they never said no, but they didn’t allow us to go anywhere on our own, not even the restroom.', 'The situation was hard but I think it was necessary. They recorded our applications for asylum. A medic gave me painkillers for my broken teeth.\xa0', 'Next, I was sent to London, where I started my first interview. Then I was sent to Knowsley in Merseyside.', 'When I first arrived in the hotel in January, it felt temporary – certainly not like a home. All I could see were other refugees.', 'The hotel staff and the other residents were generally kind, but I didn’t have privacy. They put me in a room with some random guy – we have very different habits.', 'I know some people are so scared of being deported there that they leave the hotel, and live under the radar without claiming asylum.', 'I can go to church, though, and one kind British family sat beside me there, and invited me to lunch.', 'The first thing I knew about increased tensions near my hotel in Knowsley was when a fellow asylum seeker friend went outside to go running. On his return, he told me someone threw a rock at him. That was very surprising for me, as I didn’t think people did that here. He didn’t know why it happened.', 'Another friend tried to go to a football ground and wasn’t allowed in. Then, I tried to take someone else to the hospital and a member of staff refused to let us in, saying ‘take your disease back to your country’.', 'We eventually learned that the tensions in the local area were due to a video circulating of a guy allegedly staying at the hotel trying to get a schoolgirl’s details. I thought the guy’s behaviour was awful – why would he do that? That wouldn’t be OK in my country either. People shouldn’t think everyone’s the same though.', 'On Friday 10 February – the night of the protest – hotel staff told us not to go out for our own safety, which was a good idea because the situation got worse for two to three hours. People were coming and coming.', 'We couldn’t even go out into the yard, so I watched the whole thing from the window. They threw what looked like hand grenades – but what turned out to be lit fireworks – in the crowd. Everyone was scared.', 'I wanted to talk to the protestors, but I couldn’t. The sad thing is, now my friends are all afraid to go outside.', 'I would have liked to say to these people: Don’t think we’re all the same. Everyone has their own personality. We understand the idiot who is said to have been recently filmed in the video was wrong.', 'I want to get to know people. If I was allowed to work here, I’d work in a beauty shop again like I did when I was studying. But my real dream is to go to university and do my PhD in aerospace engineering.', 'I left Iran because I had to – the regime has killed a number of my personal friends. It is still hanging people.', 'I like Britain and its rich culture.', 'I think of the family I met at church – who have now invited me to their home three times – and I try to remember 99% of people are kind.', '*The name of the author has been changed to protect their identity.']"
12,"['I thought it was unusual when my phone rang at 5:30am.', 'It was from a friend frantically wanting to know if my husband Oleksandr, two young children – Dima, 12, and Dasha, eight – and I were OK.', 'Several more followed in the distance – they were coming from different directions but we had no idea where, which was terrifying.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tUkrainian forces downed an enemy aircraft over Kyiv in the early hours on Friday, which then crashed into a residential building and set it on fire.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'From that very first day, the next few weeks were ones of confusion and horror.', 'Since our car had no fuel, there was no way for us to escape our home. So we followed government guidelines, which was to protect ourselves by staying between two thick walls in our home to shield us from falling debris of missiles or errant bullets.', 'So we lived in our small corridor, which had strong walls. We covered our windows with duct tape and thick cloth. In that tiny hallway, we slept, ate and sometimes played games with the children.', 'We did not allow them to approach the windows, so they sat on the makeshift beds or on the floor almost all the time. School classes were suspended then so they simply read books or watched movies and cartoons on their devices.', 'My children – who once lived happy, peaceful and ordinary lives – now looked like small hunted animals in fear. We all did.', 'My neighbours had a car filled with fuel, so I would join them on a trip to the store for groceries, while Oleksandr stayed at home with the children. We had to stand in a queue of about 200 people just to get into the supermarket.', 'When fuel aid finally arrived from the next town over in early March, we took our opportunity to escape. We packed essentials in a suitcase and wrote ‘CHILDREN!’ on white sheets of paper, which we glued on to the car windows. This was in case we found ourselves driving through any cross-fire.', 'We drove to Vinnytsia, a historical town in West-Central Ukraine, where a family friend took us in.', 'At this point, it felt like our only choice and the safety of our children was the biggest priority. When you’re running from war, you don’t get many options, so you take whichever chance you get to flee danger.', 'Since most men between the ages of 18 and 60 years old are not permitted to leave Ukraine, we had to explain to the children that their father could not come with us. Oleksandr had already decided that he would go to the military commissariat to defend our country in any way he could. It was a decision that many other families across Ukraine were making.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tAccording to the United Nations (UN), at least one million people have fled Ukraine to neighbouring countries since the beginning of Russia's military aggression on 24 February 2022. The UN estimates that around 160,000 Ukrainians are currently internally displaced.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'We anxiously applied for visas and passports for myself and the children, which took two months of paperwork. During this time – and as the political situation deteriorated – the questions arose in my mind: What is Britain like? Who will take us in?', 'Worse, the children’s questions broke my heart: ‘When will daddy be able to come and see us?’ In war, we know there is grief for the dead, but there is also grief that comes with the separation of loved ones.', 'Some of our uncertainties were alleviated by the team at World Jewish Relief. They kept in touch with us from the UK throughout the waiting stage, checking in to make sure we were doing OK.', 'In May, we were informed that the organisation had found us suitable hosts in London – a kind family of five – who would take us in. So I said goodbye to my husband and extended relatives on 25 May, and left Ukraine with my children in a coach headed to Krakow, Poland.', 'Within 24 hours, I had arrived from one world to another. I was greeted by my hosts at Luton airport. They had warm smiles and gave us a big hug. We felt relieved and ecstatic at the same time – we had found a new family and somewhere safe to settle. We got in the car and drove to what now is my second home.', 'In our new home, comfortable beds, delicious food and essentials were waiting for us. Most importantly, we had the warmth and care of a new family.', 'They sorted the paperwork for Dima and Dasha to attend the local school. My daughter couldn’t even speak any English so after their first day, I was worried that they wouldn’t want to go back because it was too different and unfamiliar.', 'How wrong I was – I went to pick them up at the school gates, and they ran towards me with wide eyes and big smiles, full of stories about their new friends and welcoming teachers.', 'In my mind, I divide my life into a ‘before’ and ‘after’ war.', 'In Ukraine, I raised a family and worked as a cosmetic sales assistant. Passionate about cooking, I once ran a small business where I sold authentic Ukrainian food to around 120 regular customers.', 'The war took all of that away.', 'The first few months in the UK were hard. The children cried a lot because they missed their father and their old home.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tThe mayor of Kyiv, Vitaly Klitschko says the rocket attacks this morning destroyed critical infrastructure in the Kyiv district leaving 80% of residents without water.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'Also, the scars of war stayed with us. Since we live in proximity to Heathrow Airport, the children would frequently dive under their beds, terrified – the passing planes sounded like the soaring missiles that we had grown accustomed to back home.', 'Determined to get a job and stand on my own two feet, I took up work as a residential cleaner. Not only has it given me confidence, but has enabled me to enter the next chapter of my life.\xa0\xa0', 'Now – nine months on – our lives are very different. My daughter recently spent her first Christmas in this country, writing a letter to Santa in her new language.', 'Meanwhile, it feels like my son has grown from a little boy to a little man here. He got 90% on a maths test recently and said to me: ‘Mum, I don’t know what your plans are for the future, but I want to study at Cambridge!’', 'I have been determined to find accommodation of my own with my children. Having been supported and given the love of a family, it was time to leave the nest.', 'That is when I encountered a bewildering London rental market. Trying to find a flat was a huge challenge – one that is hard enough for long-time Londoners, as I understand it.', 'When we would see a flat that was suitable, it would go in a flash. Furthermore, while employment is essential to me, I still need Universal Credit to survive independently.', 'Landlords are not allowed to refuse people based on their benefit status, but we know that many do not like it – they think that you don’t have money. I found that many other Ukrainian refugees are in a similar situation.', 'Thanks to the generosity of the British people, we all have a chance to get back on our feet and build a life for ourselves – Universal Credit is vital to enable this. But with demand for flats in London so high, we don’t get a look in.', 'As I wrote this, I was finally accepted for a flat in North London. My host family, along with some new friends here, agreed to become guarantors. I have made my first payment and I am excited to sign the tenancy agreement.', 'My children haven’t seen their father or other family since we left Ukraine. So, for now, we cherish daily phone calls.', 'When I think about the future, it is full of uncertainty – I do not know if or when I can go back with my family. But I am certain about one thing: all people deserve a chance at a normal life, especially those who have lost everything and are starting over.', 'None of this is possible without the support of a whole community – schools, landlords, and schemes like Homes for Ukraine. I still lean on the World Jewish Relief team, as well as the family and friends I have made here in this beautiful country.', 'I feel tearful with gratitude and I just hope every refugee can have the love that I have received, as well as reunite with their loved ones one day soon.']"
13,"['Our migration would be the start of a deluge of racism I’d experience throughout my life.', 'I was born into the British protectorate of East Africa and had spent all of my early childhood there, in the coastal city of Mombasa.', 'I have memories of – during monsoon season – walking barefoot through calf-high water while carrying newly-polished shoes to get to school. My friends and I would also look for nails on the ground to give to the metal collector for money so we could buy roasted peanuts or a cube of milky ice as treats.', 'When my parents told me that we’d be moving to the UK for better opportunities, I was sad to be leaving this idyllic life.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'At the airport, while we waited for the plane to be readied, I remember being scared of the tall military men with guns. I had never seen real guns in my life.', 'The flight to London was nerve-wracking to the point that I recall throwing up violently upon landing – I was so anxious and everything had suddenly become very real. The thought of having left my warm familiar surroundings made me feel as if I’d arrived on another planet.', 'We were so naive, and with my parents having only lived in the warmer climates of India and Kenya, we had mistakenly bought satin ballroom gloves! With white gloves up to our elbows and racing hearts, we took a two-hour long, £5 taxi ride all the way to our new home in Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire.', 'This county town was majority-white in the 1960s and so we instantly felt like the odd ones out.', 'Back in Kenya – where we had a large South Asian community around us, as well as the majority-Black population – we didn’t really feel out of place. As a child, I couldn’t understand that my parents had made the decision to move to the UK.', 'It wasn’t long before myself and my siblings were enrolled into local schools, which were co-ed. This was yet another culture shock because I had only attended an all girls’ school, as was the norm in Kenya at the time.', 'Not only were we expected to share classes with boys (shock, horror!), but also to participate in country dancing with them as part of the PE curriculum. Before this, I had limited interaction with boys that I was not related to, and so I felt mortified by the thought of dancing with one.', 'Our PE teacher partnered me with a young boy, who was outspoken and brash. I remember the first lesson where he exclaimed, ‘I’m not dancing with her!’', 'I didn’t realise at the time that this was the first of many encounters I would have with racism growing up. Despite his objections, we were made to dance together for the rest of the term. I felt as though I was the one being punished.', 'I ended up moving schools three times in the year that we arrived. Local landlords were not keen to rent to an Indian family due to their own prejudice and misconceptions.', 'Every school I was sent to made the assumption that I could not speak English, despite it being taught as a core subject during my early childhood in Kenya. For this reason, myself and my siblings were often underestimated and pigeon-holed into remedial classes.', 'Growing up Hindu, I had never eaten meat or even eggs. It was 1969, there were no vegetarian options available and so we were forced to conform. None of us wanted to stand out any more or cause a fuss, out of fear of alienation.', 'I so missed the fresh and colourful produce available to us in Kenya; it seemed like we had traded it all in for beef ravioli and pork faggots, both of which I despised for their taste and smell.', 'Throughout my teen years, I just wanted to belong and – above all – be accepted by my peers. For that reason, in order to be as ‘white’ as possible, we spent so much of our lives running from our heritage.', 'We were made to feel ashamed of our colour by being called ‘dirty darkies’ or be asked how long it took to grow our hair so long. More often than not, we were also constantly told to repeat what we had said, as if we were speaking another language – even though we only had slight accents.', 'I resigned myself to being the quiet one – tired of fighting to prove myself as being ‘normal’.', 'Boys at school would often shout racial slurs at us across corridors, teasing each other with the idea that one of us might fancy them (we didn’t!).', 'In sixth form, I even gained the not-so-endearing nickname ‘Smartie’, as I wore colourful clothes but was ‘brown on the inside’. I was just happy to finally fit in. I remember thinking to myself that the nickname was easier to explain than having to correct those who mispronounced my name, which was almost everybody.', 'Fortunately, my youth was not all doom and gloom, and we had our moments of joy among the prejudice and discrimination.', 'I have fond memories of inviting our English school friends along to a traditional Hindu festival, where we dressed the girls up in saris and danced the night away with the cute older boys, who were all my brother’s friends.', 'We also felt brave to face the judgement of our own already small and insular community head on; we knew that many of the elders thought of us as loose women for having male friends. I often felt stuck between two worlds: that of tradition and loyalty to my heritage, and the other full of new and exciting possibilities.', 'This feeling is still there today, although I’ve learned to better mediate between the two over time. I still worry that I will not be perceived as either ‘Indian’ or ‘British’ enough.', 'These prejudices have left lasting scars, only remedied when I reflect on how far myself and my siblings have come.', 'We left our hometown behind many years ago, and have all led successful careers and had children of our own. There are three teachers, one engineer, three nurses and a fashion designer among us.', 'I’m also very proud to say that my daughter, Tara, is a model and singer-songwriter (with an incredible EP out now!)', 'I now stand tall and proud of where I came from and who I am today. I hope the future looks better for my children when it comes to the colour of their skin.', 'Having been born in Wembley – the heart of football in this country – I hope they won’t be racially abused as often as I was growing up. Living in London, with its diverse community languages and cultures, has definitely been less scary for my children.', 'You still get the occasional racist insult, but I hope things get better for racial minorities outside of big cities.']"
14,"['In fact, I used to lick the chocolate batter off the spoon while I was in the kitchen making cakes with my mum.', 'Sadly, I haven’t got many of my own memories of back home, but Mum often shares stories of me waking up the whole neighbourhood in the city of Luanda in Angola by walking down the street with cans of Coca Cola attached to a string, making a whole lot of noise as each neighbour attached more cans.', 'Angola is a beautiful country but it didn’t have opportunities for education and a bright future some 31 years ago.', ' Wake up to find news on your TV shows in your inbox every morning with Metro’s TV Newsletter.', 'Sign up to our newsletter and then select your show in the link we’ll send you so we can get TV news tailored to you.', 'So my 23-year-old mother, Sandra, took my seven-year-old sister and I – at just two years old – to the UK. She risked it all for our future and I am so grateful that she did.', 'We settled in London and Mum learnt English from scratch while working as a cleaner – job opportunities for immigrants were very limited – when my sister and I were in school. We also welcomed my little brother to the family in 2002, 10 years after arriving in the UK.', 'Growing up, I had the luxury of having Angola at home and London on my doorstep – full of opportunities and diversity.', 'As a young boy in London with a single parent who mainly spoke Portuguese, I ended up bilingual. Having to speak Portuguese at home and English to everyone else was sometimes difficult, but now a vital skill. Nowadays, I speak fluent Portuguese and am currently learning French.', 'I always felt slightly different from my English friends in school because – although my mum did her best – we weren’t as fortunate as the other kids.', 'At the age of 18, I blagged my way into a job in a college as a support assistant working with autistic young adults in class and in the community, teaching them life skills to help them live independently.', 'I had no idea that this was my ‘calling’ but very soon after starting, I became passionate about supporting this community as much as possible. I worked with autistic people for 10 years before becoming a ‘manny’ (a male nanny) for three years.', 'I used to bake and cook with my mother throughout my childhood but it was actually the death of my father when I was 21 when it became more than that.', 'I’d never met my dad and I was due to fly to Angola in December to meet him, when he passed away in November. I felt like something had been taken away from me, and baking was the only way I found to help deal with the loss.', 'For me, baking became a form of art, and art is a type of therapy – which in turn, baking became for me. Having to focus on the ingredients and the recipe, being creative and making something beautiful helped me express myself. From then, baking became my saving grace.\xa0', 'I started baking cakes for friends and family, then took a shot at running a small bespoke cake business between 2014 and 2015.', 'I was fortunate enough to bake for some amazing UK stars, including members from Little Mix, Stormzy and Adebayo Akinfenwa. But I realised that I preferred to bake for the joy rather than money.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tGreat British Bake Off's Sandro opens up about his relationships with judges and presenters of the show.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'Then in 2020, the pandemic hit and I became anxious about the situation the whole world was dealing with, feeling extremely sad and sensitive to the constant bad news.', 'Baking had helped me before so I decided to use it as a form of therapy again. I also wanted to open it up to other people – like the people with autism I used to work with – who were feeling the same anxiousness.', 'So myself and around 10 other people joined a weekly Zoom to bake together. We made lemons loafs, chocolate chip cookies, chocolate cakes – it didn’t really matter. I just wanted us to have a good time and use it as a much-needed distraction from the crisis.', 'In the group, we had a young autistic girl who enjoyed baking and looked like she really benefited from the activity. It made me think of how many autistic people and their families that were suffering with mental health and a lack of support during lockdown.', 'That’s when I created ‘Baking on the Spectrum’, a platform for autistic children and adults to come together, learn to bake, bond and engage from the comfort of their home. What was once a rapid Covid-19 relief activity has become a community interest company (CIC) – working with over 100 families in East London.', 'I became so hooked on the benefits of baking that I decided to apply for The Great British Bake Off because my friend pushed me to do it. Sadly, I didn’t get it, but on my third attempt in November 2021, I was finally accepted.', 'I’ll never forget the day in March 2022 that I got the call to say I’d be part of the Great British Bake Off. That memory is literally my happy place, it always brings a smile to my face.', 'When I hung up the phone, I just couldn’t believe it was happening. In fact, the whole experience was so surreal, it was only when I got to the finals that it finally felt real.', 'The actual filming was a dream. I’m not a morning person at all but I was so happy to jump out of bed for each new day. The production team were amazing, as were the other bakers and the judges, and made each part of the process super easy.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tIt's back and there's a new batch of bakers.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'My Angolan heritage came through with my savoury bakes and actually sometimes with my sweet bakes – from tangy flavours of chorizo and BBQ to sweet caramel dulce de leche and banana. I tried to incorporate these as much as possible, while also showing an ode to the UK, too.', 'Thankfully, I was well received by viewers – it didn’t hurt to be looked at as the hottie of the Bake Off tent either! – and got so much support from so many amazing people. Engaging with my fans makes me wish I could meet all of them. I love running into supporters on the street even now.', 'Life has been amazing since the show. The support and love I have received from so many people has been unreal – I am so grateful.', 'I have had so many opportunities come my way, including working with brands like Google and Asda, even filming segments for Lorraine. I would love to stay in front of the cameras, as well as continue my work with ‘Baking on the Spectrum’.', 'I’d do Bake Off 10 times over, but I’m ready to put my baking gloves away for the moment and maybe try something new.\xa0']"
15,"['It was in 2021 and they were there to arrest me, so my brother tried to stop them but he was hit with the end of a gun.', 'It was too late. They dragged me out kicking and screaming, threw me in the back of a truck and blindfolded me. I was scared and afraid as I didn’t know where they were taking me.', 'My crime?\xa0I was working in the Sudanese empowerment removal committee,\xa0which dealt with\xa0anti-corruption.', 'This was the first time I was arrested but it wouldn’t be the last. It was a series of events that led me to fleeing my home country and coming to the UK as an asylum seeker.', 'I lived a busy life in Khartoum. I was working for the Ministry of Planning on urban development and I spent my weekends visiting family and friends, as well as doing charity work for schools and campaigning against child marriage.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'At the start of 2019, things looked hopeful when a civilian government replaced the old military regime. I wanted to see my country as a place that could be developed.', 'A militia group called The Janjaweed took me to an undisclosed location and told me that they kill people like me and wouldn’t hesitate to murder my family too.', 'For 13 days, they tortured me.', 'I was accused of being a spy because I studied my masters in the UK in 2008 and I was supposedly encouraging anti-Muslim behaviours. So they tried to get information out of me about the committee I worked for.', 'They wanted me to share all the evidence and documentation that we had gathered that exposed their corruption, but I didn’t tell them anything.', 'I was physically and emotionally broken and it was very difficult, but then I was released as part of a deal between the military and civilian powers. I thanked God to be free, but I also knew first-hand how the military treated people, and I swore I would do my best to support the people still behind bars.\xa0', 'I could not remain quiet, so I went out again on the streets to protest – and again and again. I wanted to raise awareness about what was happening to people simply asking for peace, justice and freedom.', 'On 13 November, I went to one demonstration where they shot at me and two people next to me dropped to the ground. People were being shot and killed around me – children as young as 12 years old.', 'After this, I ran into the side streets, but members of the militia caught me again. That’s when I was arrested for the second time.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tSecurity forces fired tear gas at anti-military protesters in Sudan's capital Khartoum on Sunday as demonstrators marched towards the presidential palace in the 12th round of major protests since a coup on October 25 2021.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'They were putting most people in a fridge locker, but they took me somewhere else because they found out that I had been arrested before. Speaking about this time is very difficult for me.', 'They felt threatened by my position because I was empowering other women within our community to speak up about injustices and fight back. So they kept me in their custody until the end of the month.', 'After I was released, I knew I needed to leave the country – and fast.', 'At the time, the airports were shut due to the coup but as soon as they reopened at the start of December, I bought a ticket and flew out of Sudan on 3 December to the UK.\xa0I was supposed to go to a conference in the UK for work so I had a valid visitor’s visa.', 'I chose the UK because it was the only safe country I was familiar with and had lived in previously.\xa0', 'I remember being on the plane feeling devastated and heartbroken that this was a final goodbye to the country I love and grew up in. I knew that I would probably not see my family and friends again. It was the most difficult decision I’ve ever had to make.', 'As soon as I arrived at Heathrow Airport, I claimed asylum. I didn’t know what would happen next – how it would be processed, where they would take me, where I would live.', 'Since I arrived in the UK, I have been waiting for a decision on my case.\xa0', 'It has now been a year and four months and I feel frustrated, home-sick and exhausted by the ordeal I’ve had to face.', 'My accommodation was initially in a tiny room on the ground floor with no window, but now they have given me a better room.\xa0', 'I can’t work so I am unable to apply my skills, qualifications and intelligence to society. So I help people suffering in the same situation as I am by using my native language and doing translation and interpreting.\xa0', 'Last year, I met two women and started actively volunteering.', 'First, I met Nighat Khan, who is the founder and Managing Director of New Vision For Women, which supports and empowers women from different cultures, backgrounds and life stages through activities and English classes. I was really impressed with their work and began to volunteer with them immediately – helping other women with language and advocating on their behalf.', 'Around the same time, I also met Anahita Haghi from Community Arts Box, which organises cultural events with a similar purpose. This is an amazing place where I could utilise my organisational and artistic skills to help other people who have also experienced exile.', 'These engagements have really helped me to stay active and feel useful,\xa0along with people like my friend Ali who really looked after me when I first arrived.', 'I wish the Home Office would make a decision on my claim so I can start my new life in the UK. If I had Leave to Remain, I would start working as an architect and I would get my PhD to be able to contribute more.', 'All I really want is to have a normal life. I want to feel free from harm and continue to raise awareness of the situation in my country.', 'That’s all asylum seekers like me really want – to feel safe.', 'The author’s name has been changed to protect her identity.']"
16,"['Having to rely on canned food, cereals, cheese and milk – from the generosity of my local church – to feed my children felt insulting.', 'After almost 10 years in the UK, I had ended up by myself with three children and little to show for my time here. When I got home that evening and made dinner, I couldn’t even bring myself to tell my kids where the food we were eating came from.', 'As a graduate with top marks in business administration, I finished my studies and landed a great job as a business development manager for a multinational company that bottles well-known beverages in Nigeria.', 'Because of my excellent education and high salary, I was able to get a highly-skilled migrant visa to come and work in the UK in 2009. I was so excited.', 'My boyfriend at the time and I decided that he would join me in the UK as a dependent on my visa, and we got married with a beautiful ceremony at our church in Nigeria.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tOnce a week, Joanne makes a six-mile round trip by bus to wait patiently outside a foodbank so that she may feed herself and her children.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'Within a year, we were both living in London and making plans to have a family here. Yet the terms of my visa dictated that I had to earn more than £40,000 per year to be able to stay.', 'I tried everything I could to get a job in my field, but I found that – without an education from a British university – a lot of doors were closed for me. What, in Nigeria, was considered a top degree from a great university, here was seemingly considered worthless.', 'The clock was ticking fast for me – I had to start earning soon and meet the salary threshold. I also had to save enough money to twice pay for my and my husband’s visa renewal fees – each costing thousands of pounds.', 'In 2010, I founded an event company providing decorations and cakes for weddings, engagement, and birthday parties. At first, my husband and I covered all the roles and responsibilities, and eventually – as we grew – we recruited more people on a temporary basis.', 'By 2015, we had three children and had spent five years in the UK. That’s when my husband and I were eligible to apply for Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR).', 'Unfortunately, the Home Office refused our application, which came as a huge blow. Apparently there were some ‘discrepancies’ with HMRC – due to a simple mistake made by our accountant – which they used as an excuse to refuse us.', 'After paying the outstanding balance with HMRC, we borrowed money to cover the £7,500 needed to apply for ILR for a second time. Once again, the Home Office refused our application.', 'We were speechless. At this point, the Home Office was expecting us to pack our bags and move back to Nigeria, which was a country my children had no ties to – they didn’t even have Nigerian passports. There was nothing waiting for us there.', 'We were crushed by debt, but – without ILR – we couldn’t work anymore. The pressure we were under was too much for my husband so he decided to leave us and move back to Nigeria. When he left, it was strenuous and overwhelming – everything became too much to deal with, but I had to stay strong.', 'I couldn’t uproot my children though, so I decided to stay and fight back for them.', 'With no visa, I had lost my right to work, rent, access to public support and even healthcare – despite, until a few months before, working in the NHS while raising three children. Eventually I had to move in with my sister and rely on food banks and the church.', 'I applied for Leave to Remain – paying thousands in fees yet again – based on the fact that I was my children’s sole carer and they were born here. But the Home Office found the cruelty to deny me for a third time. They said that we should just go back to Nigeria and start our lives again there – in a complete disregard for my children’s lives and welfare.', 'Praxis successfully challenged the Home Office decision for me, and – thanks to their help – within three months of meeting them, I had limited Leave to Remain on the so-called 10-year route. This means that before being able to apply for ILR, I will have had to wait a decade, renewing my visa every two and a half years, each time at a cost of thousands of pounds.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\t'If you have a chat with a few of these people, you'll be alarmed to know that they're getting 20 pounds a day for 15 hour shifts.'\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'As soon as I had papers again, I successfully applied to get back to my job with the NHS. Then, determined to make the most of my skills, I got a place to study at the University of Greenwich for a nursing degree because I wanted to learn more and advance my career within the NHS.', 'Yet the cruelty of this system struck me one more time. Because my visa was only two and a half years long – and the degree lasted three years – after the university found this out, they could not accommodate me on the course anymore. To add insult to injury, I was told that, to get back into education, I had to wait until I got ILR.', 'But under the conditions of the visa I’m on right now, it’ll be at least another five years until I’m even able to apply for ILR – and if my experience shows me anything, it’s not certain I’ll get it, even if I meet the requirements.', 'I have lost count of exactly how much I’ve already paid in fees and debt interest since moving here.', 'It must be at least £20,000, if not more. It’s depressing just to think of it.', 'My hope is that the Home Office changes this cruel system that forces countless families into a precarious life.', 'I’m doing everything I can to support my children so that this situation doesn’t haunt them. Last year, I had to pay thousands more to register two of them as British citizens, and we’re still waiting for the Home Office to process their application.', 'I just want them to have a good life.', 'For more information about the work that Praxis does, visit their website here. The name of the author has been changed to protect her identity.']"
17,"['Living conditions were so bad that my mother contracted typhus soon after our arrival and died in a rat-infested cellar. ', 'She was only 29 years old at the time and seeing her lying on a makeshift bed covered in sores and unable to move is something I will never forget.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Thousands were murdered within weeks of the invasion, and my family was forced out of our home and moved to a house on the outskirts of the city in preparation for a move to the city’s ghetto. We were allowed to take just one suitcase and our entire family had to live in one small room in a house that accommodated three other families.', 'In response, my parents dug a hole underneath a wardrobe for us to hide in during Nazi raids, but it was only big enough for me, my seven-year-old brother, Tunio, and mother.', 'In June 1941, the Nazis invaded our home during a raid on Jewish residences.', 'As the sound of their boots resonated through the walls, my mother acted quickly, ushering my brother and I to safety in the hole. Meanwhile, my father and grandmother sought refuge in the loft, but were eventually discovered and apprehended.', 'Tragically, my father was shot, and my grandmother was taken away, never to be seen again.', 'Soon, we were transferred to the Lvov ghetto, where my mother died – leaving my brother and I as orphans.\xa0', 'As the situation deteriorated – where many people were sent to the extermination camp at Belzec – Tunio and I stayed with another family who took us in at the request of my uncle, Selig.', 'A few months later, the family’s 20-year-old daughter gave us up and brought an armed SS guard to the house. I’ll never know why she did this, but to be caught harbouring or helping Jews was a crime punishable by death. So it was easy for someone to turn from offering refuge and assistance to suddenly informing the local Nazi officers.', 'The SS man ended up shooting my brother and burying him alive – with help from the Polish family – which I was absolutely devastated about. But for some unknown miraculous reason, he let me escape so I wandered around the Polish countryside looking for help.', 'At just nine years old at the time, I was always frightened, on my guard and careful about what I said to people. I also knew that I did not want to die and I was lucky to survive.', 'Eventually, a woman working in her field took pity on me and invited me to live with her. I hid my Jewish identity for a while, but as soon as her family discovered who I really was, I was forced to move again and returned to Lvov.', 'I chose to go back there because my aunt, Rouja, had given me the address of a Polish man named Edek – who was sympathetic to Jews and a family friend – and told me to look for him if I found myself with nowhere else to go. Somehow, I managed to keep his address safe with me and eventually find him.', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tThis is the emotional moment Holocaust survivors gather 75 years after liberation and walk arm-in-arm through the 'Arbeit macht Frei' gate.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'Once I arrived, he hid me in his attic, where I was amazed to discover 13 other Jews, including Rouja and Selig.', 'We were eventually moved to an underground bunker, where we stayed for a year. The conditions were terrible – with little air and stifling heat – and we had to take turns lying down.\xa0', 'Through her ingenuity, Rouja managed to obtain false documents for me, and I went to live in a convent in Kraków – pretending to be a Catholic girl. At first, it was challenging for me to walk because I had not used my legs much while in hiding.', 'At the convent, I had to recite Catholic prayers and keep my identity a secret. After this, I was taken to live with a Catholic priest. Lastly, I lived with and worked as a maid for a Polish family until the country was liberated in 1945.\xa0', 'Six months later, I was reunited with Rouja, who had also survived the horrors of the Holocaust. Selig did too and went to live in Israel.', 'Initially, my 19-year-old aunt and I stayed at a Polish home for Jewish children, but anti-Semitism was rife and stones were thrown at us.', 'Rouja then took me to a Jewish orphanage in Paris, where I became proficient in French. Eventually, while my aunt stayed in Paris, I moved to England in 1956 – at the age of 24 – ostensibly for a period of three months to improve my English.', 'But at the end of the three months, I met my future husband and decided to stay.', 'It’s never easy to rebuild one’s life after enduring trauma but, over time, I was able to establish a career and have a family. My life has been rich and rewarding. I’m a proud mother of two sons and have two lovely grandsons.', 'As a Holocaust survivor, I am totally committed to raising awareness and educating others about the atrocities that took place, as well as speaking out against prejudice and discrimination.', 'That is why I strongly support the work of organisations such as the Holocaust Memorial Day Trust (HMDT), which strive to promote understanding and remembrance of the Holocaust and other genocides.', 'I first got involved with HMDT in 2015 when I took part in the Memory Makers project, an initiative that looked at the experiences of survivors like myself through the prism of art.\xa0', 'Having been forced to live in a Nazi ghetto, there is no question in my mind that the legacy of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising is more relevant than ever, given the rise of anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry in our own time.', 'The fighters in that ghetto were able to hold out for as long as they did because they had a common cause.', 'Although the uprising did not succeed in saving the lives of the majority of its participants, it did inspire other acts of resistance and rebellion against the Nazis throughout Europe. It also showed that even in the most dire circumstances, people can stand up against oppression and fight for their dignity and freedom.\xa0', 'The Warsaw Ghetto Uprising reminds us that we are stronger when we stand together and support one another, and that the power of community can help us overcome even the most difficult challenges.', 'It is the power of community demonstrated by the many different people who sheltered and hid me that enabled my survival.', 'We must never forget what happened and be vigilant against hatred and discrimination, and we must stand up for the rights and dignity of all people – regardless of their race, religion, or background.']"
18,"['I consider myself fortunate to have been born in a comparatively liberal home in Delhi where my parents believed in allowing girls to dream of things other than a husband.', 'I felt lucky to get to study at a co-ed school, have friendships with boys (not a boyfriend though), colour my hair after the age of 18, only have a personal curfew of 6pm, access books, or plan a career and future life.', 'By comparison, female cousins or friends were basically trained to be maids, cooks and carers, performing unpaid domestic labour in preparation for the ultimate goal in life – marriage.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'For most women where I’m from, your husband and his family decide what time you wake up, what you eat, what you do all day. I felt a sense of helplessness that made the idea of marriage revolting to me.', 'I was assaulted by a middle-aged family friend in my own home – right under my parents’ noses – when I was 11 years old. A classmate attempted to rape me at my home when my parents were away at 15, then another one tried to do the same just three years later.', 'At 22, a trusted family doctor raped me when I went for a treatment, but I just froze in the moment. To make matters worse, I felt I couldn’t share it with anyone because I thought I might be blamed for it. I didn’t go to the police either because I knew of other people it had happened to but nothing was done about it.', 'This incident is not counting all the random groping, harassment, catcalls and unwanted flashing that is part and parcel of everyday life for women like me in India. I still have PTSD from all that.', 'So I knew I needed to escape. I started trying to convince my parents to support me in applying for a PhD in the UK, which took a lot of persuading.', 'I felt free for the first time in my life', 'They eventually relented so I applied and got approved for a student visa in November 2009, as well as accepted into a university in Britain. I was overjoyed at the idea of leaving my home country so I booked a flight for that same month.', 'Packing up my whole life and moving to a country where I had no friends or family – not to mention very limited information on Google in those days – was a challenge I now shudder at. My flight to the UK was exhilarating though.', 'As soon as I emerged from Heathrow airport at 5am, I stared at the fresh dirt on the snow while at the bus stop waiting for a coach to the north west.', 'As the brutal British breeze brushed my hair against my cheek, I felt as extraordinary as a baby bird cracking through the egg shell. I felt weak and vulnerable, but excited at the same time.\xa0', 'I eventually settled into shared student accommodation, then energetically began my studies.', 'Outside of academia, I felt free for the first time in my life – even though it was gloomy and rainy. I don’t think most women who live in this country truly understand what liberty or freedom is because they have no experience of what the lack of it feels like.', 'Living in the UK, I went on to do some other extraordinary things that I could never do back home. On top of completing my PhD, I volunteered at several organisations – like cancer charities – as well as being elected for a position with the United Nations Youth Students Association and even gave speeches at women’s marches to large crowds.', 'But it was also the little things too.', 'One small blessing that helped me grow as a woman and into a feminist is my local public library. Having access to such extensive and varied collections of books on all kinds of subjects – plus having a room of my own in the UK to process all that knowledge – is my fairytale come true.', 'I’ve been able to access therapy and am still working on processing trust and commitment issues, flashbacks, nightmares, as well as being scared of loud noises, crowds and men in general.', 'I met my British partner, Ali*, in 2012 while he was working as a builder where I was staying in student accommodation at the time. He actually came to the UK as an asylum seeker from the Middle East, so there is a massive cultural difference between us, but he is one of the sweetest and most loving people I know.', 'For the first time in my life, I learned what a relationship between two people built on respect and equality is like, as well as what it is like to have the freedom to say ‘no’ in said relationship. He’s worlds apart from the entitled jerks back home.', 'The UK isn’t perfect – if the events like the Sarah Everard case are anything to go by – but it’s far preferable for me', 'Sadly, I live with Ali in complete secrecy from my family. They know that there is a man in my life, but I do not talk about him or share pictures of him on social media, which saddens me that I feel like I have to do this.', 'Unfortunately, the Home Office has refused three of my visa applications.', 'Due to circumstances out of my control that happened at university, I initially applied to stay on humanitarian grounds, but it was refused.', 'Then Ali and I applied on spouse visa grounds twice, but the Home Office said my relationship was not serious enough. All three of these blows have felt devastated, if not just because of the financial burden that my partner has been bearing the brunt of.', 'Since I have not been permitted to work – I’ve had No Recourse to Public Funds since day one – I feel like I have no other option than to go back to India.', 'I cannot make my partner pay for a visa application that is upwards of £4,000. He begs me not to leave, but my time is almost up and I am stuck between spending his hard-earned money during this cost of living crisis to pay for my visa – which they may reject again – or to leave him heartbroken.', 'This piece actually feels like my goodbye letter to the UK. I am expecting to go back to India in a few weeks with a broken heart, a secret partner’s memories and some antidepressants.', 'But life in India has become worse since the Modi government came to power in 2014, especially for women and minorities. In fact, a 2018 poll ranked the country the most dangerous place for women in the world due to widespread sexual violence, retrograde cultural practices and trafficking.', 'The UK isn’t perfect – if the events like the Sarah Everard case are anything to go by – but it’s far preferable for me.', 'When I first arrived on that cold, snowy November morning and sat on a freezing bench outside Heathrow airport with a luggage full of hopes and eyes full of dreams, the UK felt like freedom.\xa0', 'Now that freedom is being ripped away from me – and I’m terrified of what I’ll have to go back to.', 'Both the name of the author and her partner has been changed to protect their identity']"
20,"['The Irish Times believes it was the victim of an AI hoax after publishing an opinion piece that claimed Irish people wear too much fake tan.', 'The newspaper said it was ‘genuinely sorry’ for the op-ed, which they think may have been produced ‘at least in part’ using artificial intelligence. ', 'The piece, entitled ‘Irish women’s obsession with fake tan is problematic’ appeared on The Irish Times’ website on Thursday morning.', 'The name of the author was given as Adriana Acosta-Cortez, who was described as a 29-year-old healthcare administrator from Ecuador living in north Dublin.', 'A photo of the apparent author accompanied the article.', 'The piece discussed the widespread use of fake tan in Ireland, suggesting it was a form of cultural appropriation.', 'But on Friday afternoon, a number of people on social media questioned whether the photo and the name of the writer were those of a real person.', 'By 5.30pm that day the body of the piece had been taken down and in its place, under the headline, it said: `The text of this article has been removed pending checks.’', 'The newspaper’s editor, Ruadhan Mac Cormaic, wrote in a letter on Sunday that the paper had fallen victim to a deliberate deception and does not ‘take this lightly’.', 'He said: ‘It was a breach of the trust between The Irish Times and its readers, and we are genuinely sorry.', '‘The incident has highlighted a gap in our pre-publication procedures. We need to make them more robust – and we will.’', 'Mr Mac Cormaic said the incident highlighted one of the challenges raised by generative AI for news organisations.', '‘We, like others, will learn and adapt,’ he added. ', 'He said The Irish Times works hard to come up with a blend of thought-provoking columns in its opinion section that ‘inform, stimulate and lend a fresh perspective on a current issue’.', 'However, the editor said the paper ‘got it badly wrong’ on Thursday.', 'He said: ‘We published online an opinion column under the headline ‘Irish women’s obsession with fake tan is problematic’, written by someone purporting to be a young immigrant woman in Ireland.', '‘It made an argument that has been aired in other countries but related it to the Irish context.', '‘Over the course of several days, the author engaged with the relevant editorial desk – taking suggestions for edits on board, offering personal anecdotes and supplying links to relevant research.', '‘All of this was taken in good faith, and the article was published online on Thursday morning.’', 'Mr Mac Cormaic said the newspaper became aware the column may not have been genuine less than 24 hours later.', 'He said: ‘That prompted us to remove it from the site and to initiate a review, which is ongoing.', '‘It now appears that the article and the accompanying byline photo may have been produced, at least in part, using generative AI technology.', '‘It was a hoax; the person we were corresponding with was not who they claimed to be. We had fallen victim to a deliberate and coordinated deception.”', 'Mr Mac Cormaic said The Irish Times will continue to ‘make space for new writers, not least those from under-represented communities’ and to ‘offer the high-quality journalism you expect’.']"
21,"['‘I’m an immigrant,’ I quietly pointed out.', '‘Oh no, not you. You know what I mean.’', 'In 1995, I first came to England as a 25-year-old post grad looking for an adventure before starting a job back home in the States. With a six-month temporary visa, I wanted to explore and have fun, never thinking I would meet the British man who became my husband just over a year later.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Even then, I briefly saw the negative bias towards outsiders.', 'In 1996, my husband and I were married and lived west of London for 14 months before his company offered him a transfer to their Ohio office. Not ready to settle down with a mortgage or children, we jumped at the chance to live a bit closer to my family in Pennsylvania.', 'We planned to be away for two years, but stayed for 13. In that time, my husband received his US citizenship, we had two children (dual citizens from birth), bought a house and settled into a suburban community.', 'My husband’s immigrant experience was different to mine: his job kept him busy travelling around the country and his accent intrigued people. Americans tend to fall all over themselves when they hear a British accent, and he found that to be true.', 'Though the fawning was punctuated by the occasional, ‘What are you doing over here taking jobs from Americans?’ And although he felt the cultural differences, he was welcomed warmly most everywhere he went.', 'Our Ohio town was a close, diverse community — not without its problems — but it was home.', 'We knew our neighbours, were involved in our children’s schools, cheered at 4th of July parades and felt a sense of belonging.', 'One reason we left, however, was because of the regular active shooter drills our children had to endure at school. The real possibility of a gunman barging into their school was an ever-looming shadow.\xa0', 'Actually, six months after we left the US, an armed teenager shot six classmates – killing three of them – at a school 20 miles away from our former home. Within the year, bulletproof backpacks became available for families to buy as a safety measure for their children to carry to school.', 'It was a sobering reminder — this was not a world we wanted our children to grow up in.', 'We always planned to return to the UK, wanting our children to embrace the opportunities available to them here. Mainly, my husband wanted to go home.', 'We left behind my family and a close-knit group of friends and a community, neighbourhood and school we loved. Moving is one of the hardest things I’ve done, not only logistically but emotionally.', 'Selling our home, completing reams of paperwork to obtain my visa — including interviews, fingerprints, multiple forms, references, and a lot of money — rehome our cats, offload 13 years’ worth of furniture, books, and other possessions, forcing our children to make difficult choices about what to keep and what to give away.', 'But I know my experience was easy compared to that of most people who emigrate.', 'I’m not attacked for choosing a new life here, and I don’t need to navigate my way in a new language.\xa0\xa0', 'In 2011, we returned to the UK as a family of three dual nationals, with plans for me to take on dual citizenship when I legally could. I’m privileged, I know, and even though we chose this, I am an immigrant.', 'When I briefly joined a social group in my new area, one of the members complained loudly about Muslims ruining the country and trying to infiltrate the UK’s Christian culture – equating their presence with the crumbling of British values. Her anger at what she saw as immigrants changing the country for the worse seemingly didn’t extend to me because she saw me as someone like her – mainly, white and English-speaking.', 'I wasn’t brave enough to challenge her on her anti-immigrant rhetoric because I already knew where that would go – another ‘oh no, not you’.', 'But little things grate on us all: trying to understand the etiquette of the school gate, trying to help my children form friendships, dealing with their tears over being teased for their accent, the contents of their lunchbox, or being told by classmates to go back to where they came from.', 'A year after our move, I attended my then seven-year-old’s parent’s evening, where his teacher said to me, ‘As much as we don’t like the Americans, we can’t hold that against him’.', 'I stared at her in disbelief, too stunned to retort, left the meeting and burst into tears. The headteacher later dismissed it as a badly-worded joke, but it stung.', 'There is grief in leaving home, no matter the circumstances: war, famine, choice. In our early years, my children and I only wanted to go home. They talked about returning when they are older, but now – at 22 and 17 – one is about to go to university and one is finishing her degree.', 'They’ve lived here longer than they lived in Ohio, and they struggle to imagine going back. It’s home, but it’s not. My husband has found the same thing here: things aren’t as he remembered, and the old adage that you can’t go home again proves true.', 'After 12 years, I feel like I still haven’t found my place here, and I’m not sure that anyone who emigrates ever does. My heart is in two places; with this decision I made a choice to miss weddings, funerals, birthdays and celebrations at home.', 'This is what I think we could all do to remember: emigrating for whatever reason is an incredibly tough choice. I can’t see my family as often as I want to, but I can still go home – for many fleeing war and abuse, that is no longer an option.', 'At the end of the day, all immigrants want to feel we belong and are welcomed, no matter our reasons for coming here, the strength of our accent, or the colour of our skin.']"
22,"['RNLI lifeboat crews saved the lives of more than 100 migrants making the ‘perilous’ English Channel crossing last year, the charity has revealed.', 'It has never published figures on migrant crossings before, but chief executive Mark Dowie said they ‘illustrate clearly that our work in the Channel is genuinely lifesaving’.', 'The RNLI, which has previously been accused of operating a ‘migrant taxi service’ with its rescues, said it had saved 108 men, women and children who had piled onto makeshift vessels.', 'Mr Dowie said the charity is ‘unashamed and makes no apology for staying committed to and focused on the purpose we were created for, nearly 200 years ago – to save lives at sea’.', 'Migrant rescues were launched in the Channel 290 times during 2022 – 3% of the 9,312 total nationwide, which saved 506 lives.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Head of lifeboats Simon Ling said: ‘This crossing and this rescue demand is very, very dangerous and the fact we have saved 108 lives just shows how perilous this journey is.', '‘Men, women and children getting into overcrowded dinghies crossing one of the most treacherous shipping channels anywhere in the world.’', 'He added: ‘This type of rescue is very challenging for a number of reasons, be that the number of casualties, the level of trauma that these casualties present.’', 'Speaking last year, he said: ‘We often see women and children huddling in the middle of the boats, men sitting on the side, very little space between the top of the dinghy and the water, so there’s an omnipresent risk of the boat being compromised, putting everybody in the water.', '‘It’s very chaotic, with screaming and panic, mothers holding up babies and, in some cases, throwing the babies at our lifeboat crew to catch, such is the level of distress.’', 'The charity has brought in translation cards to aid communication with people from a variety of countries as well as new equipment to assist in its rescues including inflatable horseshoe life rings.', 'And it is developing a ‘game-changing’ inflatable platform known as sea stairs which can help speed up the recovery of large numbers of people from the water on to an all-weather lifeboat.', 'Mr Ling said: ‘The new equipment and procedures may have been developed for use in mass casualty scenarios in the Channel, but they have potentially widespread lifesaving application across the\xa0RNLI\xa0– and worldwide – for responding to any incident involving large numbers of casualties, such as a passenger ferry which is sinking or on fire.’', 'So far in 2023, 8,858 people have made the crossing with the highest number to date this year – 616 – being picked up from 12 boats on Sunday, June 11.', 'In November 2021, 31 people died while trying to cross the Channel in a dinghy.', 'Mr Dowie said: ‘We are extremely proud of all our volunteer lifeboat crews throughout the UK, Ireland and Channel Islands and that very much includes those working in challenging circumstances in the south east of England.', '‘We have never released these figures before, but they illustrate clearly that our charity’s work in the Channel is genuinely lifesaving.', '‘Sadly, we know there have been incidents in the Channel which have resulted in deaths, but without the brave actions of our crews, who are ready to answer their pagers day or night, 365 days a year, we can be certain there would have been more.’']"
23,"['When the HMT Empire Windrush docked at Tilbury, Essex, from the Caribbean on June 22, 1948, it marked a significant moment for Britain.', 'Grappling with a labour shortage while endeavouring to rebuild its weakened economy in the aftermath of World War Two, a new Labour government promised young Caribbeans work in exchange for rejuvenating a country ravaged by six years of war.', 'Out of the original 1027 passengers aboard the Windrush, 236 of them found temporary shelter in a deep-level air raid facility at Clapham Common.', 'Subsequently, they sought work via the Brixton employment exchange, with some members of the Windrush generation opting to make South London their home.', 'In a captivating series of photographs by renowned social documentary photographer Jim Grover, he focuses on the people, groups, and organisations in South London who are wholeheartedly committed to preserving their distinctive Caribbean heritage and traditions. ', 'These pictures, which are part of an exhibition called Windrush: A Voyage Through The Generations, currently at Clapham Library, also underscore the significance of intergenerational exchange and the invaluable passing down of memories and customs that have made substantial contributions to the vibrant tapestry of British society.', 'The launch exhibition of Windrush: A Voyage Through The Generations can be seen at Clapham Library on Clapham High Street until September.']"
24,"['‘COCAIINAAAAA!’', 'You’d think people would get tired of reacting in the same way when they meet a Latin American, but apparently they don’t.', 'I know this because the word ‘cocaine’ in both Spanish and English has officially lost its meaning to me. I no longer process it as a class A drug, but as a slur and expired joke thrown my way.', 'Add in a little comment about being ‘spicy’ and ‘sexy’ and you’ve won the triple slur!', 'I’m 25 years old now and this has been happening since school, in the street, at parties and in the workplace. And it’s not always strangers; people forget themselves after a drink or two and think it’s OK.\xa0', 'The typical, ‘What do you study?’, is regularly followed by shock and gasps when I reply ‘Politics and Law’, as if it’s impossible to do.', 'But I already know it’s the judgement about my intelligence that causes this reaction because once I mention I’m from South America, all they see is a drug expert. It frustrates me.', 'People in the UK think we can only be cleaners, or we have to be seductive – we are gold-diggers, in need of sugar daddies or simply the house help. But it’s time to retire these harmful and lazy stereotypes.', 'Films that play into these narratives – like Maid in Manhattan that shows J-Lo as a cleaner who ends up marrying a white man, or Fast and Furious, who have Latin American dealers and criminals – only add fuel to the fire. Women especially are usually second or third tier characters, rarely given names – just sex worker, stripper, cleaner etc.', 'When I was a teenager, I was invited to an event for a piece I was writing at school and an older white man came to speak to me.', 'He asked where I was from and then refused to believe I was from Ecuador. He then went on to tell me about his friends, who married women from Ecuador, only to be subsequently divorced ‘because they just wanted money and a passport’.', 'He never for a second thought that perhaps these men might have been left for being bad husbands and had unhappy marriages. I questioned his attitude as much as I felt confident to, but he was an older male person and this was a white space – I feared my place within it was precarious enough.', 'I’ve experienced further judgement as a South London British-born Latinx woman. Many people are amazed I made it into higher education.', 'In sixth form, my own teacher said, ‘You might want to take Sheffield and Birmingham off your list of universities because they have high A-level requirements, and you are not going to get those grades’. I was so angry and disappointed because he was my favourite teacher and he had no faith in me.', 'Sadly, I believed them, and I took Sheffield off my list. But I was adamant about Birmingham and my potential to achieve good A-level results.', 'I sat in his office and said ‘I’m going to risk it, and I’m going to prove you wrong’. I got all As and A stars – including in his subject. I was accepted to Birmingham, and I was so proud.', 'As a child of first generation immigrants, there’s an ideology that we have to honour and be worthy of the sacrifice our parents made when coming to the UK for a better future. ', 'Our goal is university and then a great salary, along with a move between social classes if possible. Being able to buy a house or a car is regarded as an even higher success.', 'My own teachers didn’t believe in a career as a writer, an artist or in drama so how was I supposed to achieve my dreams? When you’re faced with such disbelief, it’s contagious and you doubt yourself – until you find other people who encourage you to dream and work in what you love.', 'Which is what happened when – five years ago – I started work on a play, My Uncle Is Not Pablo Escobar (MUINPE). I began co-writing and co-creating a show that stemmed from mine and my friend – Valentina Andrade’s – lived experiences as South London British Latinx women.', 'As a writer and lover of the arts, I got tired of the narrative that Latin American women are connected to drugs and to Pablo Escobar himself – so I decided to do something about it. So we wrote something for our community, by our community. Something realistic.', 'Throughout the show, we see four powerful women find each other and fight against a big institution known as ‘The Bank’. They question their identities and eventually empower themselves to be who they are.', 'This show fights the invisibility and lack of representation our community has lived through while being one of the largest communities to exist within the UK.', 'We play on the stereotypes and force the audience to question how they see us. We also touch on the hard but very real situations of our community – like being scared of deportation.', 'But I don’t want us to have to walk on eggshells anymore.', 'Creating this show over the past five years has been like a mirror. I was forced to question who I was and how I saw myself.', 'Throughout these five years, my own identity changed. I started out afraid of showing who I am – because people make assumptions – then dealing with the fight when you prove people wrong, like my teacher.', 'Now I can officially say I will never shy away from saying I’m from Ecuador as well as being from London, and I’m not ashamed.\xa0', 'I used to have to tick the box ‘Other’ in the ethnicity sections on forms, and am now witnessing wins – such as the Arts Council England adding a Latin American box under ‘ethnicity’ on ACE forms online – it’s all inspired and encouraged the work we’ve done in creating the play.', 'This show is a true story for so many of us and hopefully provides some relief and inspiration for those who have felt unseen for so long. ', 'I hope it inspires the younger generation of South London Latinx girls to believe that they can be more than what the world believes them to be, because we are more than ‘other’.', 'We exist, we are here, and we will be heard.']"
25,"['A 32-year-old woman in Boston is facing charges after posing as a high school student at three different schools in the city, authorities said.', 'Shelby Hewitt, of Canton, Massachusetts was charged with identity theft and document forgery after a criminal complaint was filed against her on Tuesday.', 'Police were first notified about Hewitt when the principal of English High School in Jamaica Plain called concerning one of her students, who went by the name Ellie Alessandra Blake.', 'On June 14, a man who identified himself only as ‘John Smith’ entered the high school and told them he would be withdrawing Blake, who he claimed was his daughter.']"
26,"['Not only do I wait for the blue ticks, but I keep staring at the screen to make sure that my mother, brothers or sisters in the family group chat are all typing back. This is usually after numerous calls during the day to ensure that they are OK.', 'At night, I don’t want to fall asleep because I do not know what I will wake up to.\xa0', 'Growing up, I lived in Jabalia Camp, one of the most densely-populated refugee camps in the world – certainly the highest in Gaza. Most people were like me, whose families came from villages near the Gaza Strip and were expelled during the Nakba – Arabic for ‘catastrophe’ – in 1948 when Israel was established.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'My grandfather came from a beautiful village called Deir Sneid, a painting of which is currently hung at the Nottingham Castle Museum. My dad showed us pictures of Deir Sneid – where he once lived too – and talked to us about the big Jerusalem stone house that my grandfather owned, along with so many farms.', 'I often wondered how my life would have turned out to be as a landlord of the farms that my ancestors owned.', 'I grew up learning English from a young age and listening to Western music where possible. Queen’s We will Rock You and I Want to Break Free had completely different meanings for me compared to the average teenager in London.', 'Every now and again, a reminder of our impossible life would come through in the form of Israel assassinating a resistance leader or invading Gaza, power cuts, or queuing at the UN refugee aid centre, waiting to pick up my family’s rations of flour, vegetable oil and powdered baby milk.\xa0', 'I hated every second of that long, busy queue, where I had to present my refugee card and wait for a long time. I didn’t have any money to hire a donkey cart, so I had to carry the 60kg sack of flour all the way home.', 'Being raised in a refugee camp, all I wanted to do was to pursue my education and leave Gaza to get a PhD so I could return to teach at the university.', 'So, at the age of 18, I studied English literature at Al Azhar University in Gaza and was lost in a world of books that took me to a reality that I could only experience through the pages. I loved Charles Dickens and read all of his works when possible.\xa0', 'When I received my offer from the University of North London (now London Metropolitan University) for my postgraduate education, I felt that a shaft of light had come into my life. I wanted to hang on to it as it was my only hope.', 'I packed my stuff, mostly books, terrified of what was to come. I knew there was no turning back because the situation in Gaza was getting worse everyday. I didn’t know when I would see my parents and siblings again.', 'The way to the Rafah border with Egypt – one of our only permitted routes of travel – was dotted with Israeli checkpoints, long queues in the middle of Gaza Strip, and smoke that made the sky very grey. It was the end of the world – or my world in Gaza.\xa0', 'When I finally made it to London in 2002, the city looked so familiar. I was puzzled, it felt like I had been there before – little did I know that it was printed in my mind through Dickens’ description.\xa0', 'No one warned me about the weather in London though. It rained the day after I arrived, so I missed the sun and the Gaza sea almost as much as I missed my family.\xa0', 'The people weren’t like in American movies either. They thought I was mad every time I tried to strike up a conversation at a bus stop or on the Tube. It was a long time before I made friends.\xa0', 'I worked as a front of house staff member at the Theatre Royal Haymarket, then Drury Lane Theatre while studying full-time.\xa0', 'In order to raise money for my PhD, I established a Palestinian Dabke dance (a type of folk dance) group, where I organised DJ nights and performed with the group. There, I met amazing people – including my wife, Heather, who came to dance with the group. It took seven years after that to visit home again.\xa0', 'After Hamas took over Gaza in 2007, I was unable to go back because the Rafah border was sealed shut for a number of years. There are multiple crossing points between Gaza and Israel, but the movement of people is incredibly restricted and subject to complex permits.', 'As such, I have never visited the house that my father was born in – even though I now have a British passport, I still can’t visit because I am from Gaza. It’s an apartheid system where I am only allowed to travel according to my Palestinian ID card.', 'My mum had cancer in 2009 and the Rafah border was sealed completely. When I was able to enter, I got stuck in Gaza for six months while my wife was pregnant with our first child, Zino. I sat by my mum on her hospital bed receiving chemotherapy without any electricity during a hot summer.\xa0', 'Up Next', ""\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tIsraeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was greeted by hundreds of protesters outside 10 Downing Street on Friday, as anger over his judicial reforms followed him to London.\n\nNetanyahu has faced weeks of protests as his religious-nationalist coalition pursue changes to the judiciary that would give the government sway in choosing judges and limit the Supreme Court's power to strike down laws.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t"", 'That’s not the only time when visiting home felt impossible.', 'In 2016, I tried to cross to the Israeli-occupied West Bank from Jordan with a group of international authors, using my British passport. All other writers – including Nobel Prize winner, J.M. Coetzee – entered Palestine and took part in the PalFest Literary Festival, except me.', 'I was turned back because I was from Gaza. When I mentioned that I was British and needed to speak to my embassy, the Israeli officer replied: ‘You are from Gaza, call God if you want’.', 'Since leaving, the Gaza prison-like conditions remain inside my heart – and feeling like I now live outside of this prison is equally painful.', 'My father passed away recently and I wasn’t able to just jump on a flight to get to the funeral. I missed his funeral and the traditional three-day wake we have to honour the dead. A piece of me was lost forever because I couldn’t be there and I will never be able to get it back.\xa0\xa0', 'Israel destroyed the only airport in Gaza in 2001. This beautiful Mediterranean city is not allowed to have a sea port either. But I also can’t easily bring my mother to Britain for a visit as her visa gets rejected frequently on the false grounds that she doesn’t have the intention of returning to Gaza.', 'So, in a way, I have ended up stuck in the UK – writing my novels, Vanished and Come What May, doing theatre, like The Shroud Maker and Camouflage, and telling stories, like my short story in the book Palestine+100 about Gaza winning the rights to host the Olympics in 2048 – that people will hopefully be able to understand and will relate to.', 'I tell stories to my own kids and ask them to remember that we are a nation that was uprooted from our homes and that one day we – or they – will return.', 'On the 75th anniversary of the Nakba today, I look at my life and my journey and wonder where I would be if it hadn’t happened. Would I even be a writer or live in London? Would I have the two beautiful children I have? Would the suffering I endured have been consumed in something else?', 'I often think of the millions of Palestinian refugees, those without documents or status and I try to imagine that, like me, they are still hanging on to hope.', 'Living in the UK as a British citizen while coming from a place often associated with conflict is very painful.', 'I am happy that I have a safe home in London where my children can grow up in safety and live like any other kids around the world, wanting the latest Xbox game and watching Matilda. They get a life unlike how I grew up and without the same worries of my nephews and nieces in Gaza right now, not knowing when the electricity would come back again or where the next bomb will fall.', 'London has allowed me to be the writer I am, it’s a home that accepts me for who I am and cherishes my creativity. But Palestine is in my veins as the inspiration for everything I do.', 'For me, the Nakba is not an anniversary, it’s an everyday occurrence, being exiled in a different new home and it being so difficult to go back to the one I knew.\xa0', 'However, the optimist in me thinks that, sooner or later, there will be a solution. What that looks like, no one knows yet, but Israeli apartheid will end and everyone’s human rights will be better respected.', 'Treating everyone equally must be the basis of any political settlement.', 'Until then, I’ll likely – and sadly – continue to be haunted by those two blue WhatsApp ticks.']"
27,"['‘Shut up, you stupid American c**ts’.', 'There was a short altercation between us all and before we knew it, they chased us down the street and cornered us into a dead-end where we were wrestled to the ground and beaten.', 'I looked up from the curb to see the man’s hand wrapped around my friend’s throat and her screaming for him to get off her. My instincts kicked in so I tried to help her, digging my weak hands into his sides in the hopes he’d let go.', 'And then I felt his fist hit my face. A blow so hard I barely felt the pain so much as I experienced it: bursts of red and yellow stars behind my eyes and dizzying, crackling noise.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'When he hit me a second time, I was fully knocked to the ground — his gold ring puncturing the skin of my temple — and I felt myself floating outside of my body. That’s when I blacked out for a very short period of time.', 'I don’t know how long exactly, but long enough for them to run away and for a police officer to appear from pouring rain and ask if I was OK.', 'This was my first time dealing with the British police, as well as my first time in a British hospital. I had only lived in the UK for four months by this point.', 'I moved to London from New York in October 2021 for a master’s programme in creative writing. Post-pandemic, I was looking for something new for my life and career, and the Anglophile in me chose the UK to do it.', 'There is so much I love about America, but it’s becoming an increasingly difficult place to live. Mass shootings, healthcare costs, anti-abortion laws and inflation were all motivations for leaving the country and finding a higher quality of life.', 'Let me be perfectly clear: I’m a privileged person who came to the UK through desire, not necessity. I have not escaped war or extreme poverty like so many other immigrants who seek refuge in the UK.', 'But I still saw an opportunity for a better life, and a better future for the family I want and hope to build here. I knew I could raise children in the UK without the fear of school shootings, that I could go to the supermarket without planning my escape route in case of a gunman.', 'Life in London somehow feels more relaxed and less chaotic than my life back home.\xa0', 'My first few months here were a period of adjustment and included the kind of standard difficulties that come with moving somewhere entirely new.', 'I learned how difficult it is to secure a flat as a foreigner, especially as a freelance writer (in my case) or anyone without a high-paying salaried position or sponsorship. You often can’t get an address without a UK bank account, for example, but you can’t get a UK bank account without an existing UK address.\xa0', 'And your credit starts over the moment you move here; at 33, I was treated like an 18-year-old with no financial history to my name. And I was asked to pay six months’ rent upfront – nearly $10,000 USD (around £8,000) – for a £1,100 per month studio flat in East London.\xa0', 'Off the bat, my Americanness — particularly my pronunciation of ‘tomato’ — became the playful laughing stock of new friends, acquaintances and classmates. During writing workshops in my master’s programme, some of my classmates spent more time correcting my spelling (for example, ‘color’ to ‘colour’) than they did meaningfully critiquing my work.\xa0', 'I didn’t mind; I was proud of where I came from. And overall I felt very welcomed here. I was slowly making friends, dating, and working in a kitchen part-time for extra cash.\xa0', 'That punch put all of it on pause. My face was so bruised and swollen that I couldn’t eat. And I was diagnosed with a serious concussion and told to stop working and studying for three to four weeks.', 'I got splitting headaches every time I used my phone or computer, and I lived in a kind of concussive, depressive haze that lasted months: frequently locking myself out of my flat and stumbling on my words. It felt nearly impossible to finish my degree — though I did, partially because any pause in my studies meant I’d have to leave the country — and I got barely anything out of it in my second term.\xa0', 'Eventually, the worst of the concussion gave way to manic depression and extreme anxiety. I was afraid to walk alone after dark and imagined worst-case scenarios everywhere I went. Most of that anxiety has finally faded with time and talking therapy.', 'But 16 months later, one effect remains: I’m deeply ashamed and afraid of my American accent.\xa0', 'I’ve watched myself chameleon my speech: lifting the ends of sentences, hardening my Ts, and adjusting my tone to sound as English as possible. Part of that, of course, is just from living here and absorbing my environment.\xa0', 'Other Americans I’ve met have changed their accents slightly, too. We all adjust and assimilate. But mine feels particularly emotionally charged.\xa0', 'I’m keenly aware, now, of being that ‘stupid American’ — too loud, too excitable, too ornery — and try to hide it as much as possible in public. When American friends and family visit, I’m always terrified we’ll stick out like sore thumbs; I shuffle us to the left side of the walkway, keep our voices down, stay quiet and out of the way. But I still say ‘tomato’ like an American — and I always will.\xa0', 'Something strange about living abroad I didn’t know until now: you become a foreigner in two places at once. Friends and family poke fun at me for my new tone and my British-isms, and I’ve largely lost track of American politics and trends.\xa0', 'But here in Britain, I’m never quite British enough. Always one step, joke, or pronunciation behind.\xa0', 'Surprisingly, I plan to stick around in the UK for as long as I can because I still love it here. All the things I always loved and so many more I’ve discovered since being here, like pub culture, Jersey milk and long walks along rugged coastlines.\xa0', 'I’m currently on the graduate visa, giving me two more years to live and work here, and I’m hoping to stay beyond that. London feels like home to me now. And Britain still feels far safer and more peaceful than the US as a whole.\xa0', 'As for the punching incident, the perpetrator was found and arrested on the scene and my friends and I spent several months in and out of court as witnesses to their case. The court visits — which kept getting pushed back due to Covid-19 delays — became increasingly traumatic, and the case finally concluded at the end of 2022.', 'The man who punched me was sentenced with some hours of community service and a fine of £50 for the ‘offence of beating [me]’. Fifty pounds. It didn’t feel much like justice, but it did feel good for it to be over.\xa0', 'I never got to ask that man what he hated so much about Americans in the first place — and I don’t want to. But this fear inside me is something I’ll carry for the rest of my time in the UK.', 'I can’t imagine what it must be like for people less privileged than I am. For those facing xenophobia or racism while escaping poverty and war.', 'Not to mention humans whose perceived ‘differences’ are harder to hide than my own.']"
28,"['‘Nothing for Blacks today,’ bellowed the voice of the lead factory worker.', 'As the mixed groups of both Black and white workers stood at the factory gates, the man in charge would point at all the white people and select them for jobs. ', 'For the rest of us, the response was always the same.', 'At the time, I had no other job prospects and knew the factory paid decent wages so I persisted. In the end, someone I knew who already worked there recommended me to a manager and I got\xa0a job as a machine operator.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'We always welcomed the white sailors who visited the island and at school, we were never taught about slavery or colonisation – even though it was part of our country’s history.', 'Apart from not knowing about my ancestry, in every other way, life in Grenada was idyllic.', 'We lived off the land. Our family – including my disabled widowed father and two siblings – grew all our own vegetables, like peas and corn, and fruits, like mangoes and guava. We also grew cotton, which we sold to the Government to export.', 'As long as we had rain, we were fine and had plenty to eat. In 1954, however, our crops didn’t do well and living off the produce from the land became difficult.', 'I decided to accept England’s invitation and – with the help of an uncle – raised the £65 I needed for my passage. My grand plan was to work for two years to support my family, then return to life in Grenada.', 'So in September 1955 – at the age of 19 – I boarded the Ascania ship with a group of other Grenadians and set sail for the two-week trek to England.', 'After a convoluted journey – which included a few stops in Europe – I eventually arrived at Waterloo Station in London. I stepped off the train with my small suitcase in my hand and had absolutely no idea what I was going to do next. I didn’t even know where I was going to sleep for the night.', 'I was a 19-year-old armed with nothing but hope and determination. But before I even had time to panic, I saw some familiar faces approaching the platform – people from the first group of Grenadians who’d left the island a month before me.', 'Among them was a man from my village, who took me back to his room in Kentish Town, where I slept on a chair for my very first night in England.', 'The day after, I joined forces with two other Grenadians who’d travelled with me to search for accommodation. Many of the rooms we saw advertised were vacant until we knocked on the door, then suddenly, they became ‘unavailable.’ We eventually found a room in a house owned by an African immigrant.', 'As for the actual houses in London, they were a big shock to me. They were dark, tall, multi-level and all joined up in long rows. I’d never seen houses like that before. Grenadian houses – even now – are mostly single storey, detached and painted all colours of the rainbow.', 'After working in London for a while – first as a tailor’s assistant and then as a factory worker – a friend told me that wages were higher in Yorkshire, so I headed north to Huddersfield. The textile industry was booming so I soon got a job in one of the mills mending threads.', 'Initially, I stayed in the UK for just over two years.', 'Throughout that time, I mainly concentrated on work and saving for my family back home. I didn’t go out much, but I loved reading so joined the local library. Occasionally, I’d meet up with other Grenadians at weekends to play dominoes.', 'I then went back to Grenada in 1957. That’s where I married my wife, Amy, who lived in my village. We already knew each other, but a mutual friend acted as a matchmaker and romance blossomed.', 'Unfortunately, I quickly realised the economy wasn’t much better than when I left. So I returned to England – with Amy following a few months later – to settle.', 'That meant I then had two families to support – my wife, as well as my family in Grenada.', 'As a married couple, my wife and I did what lots of West Indian immigrants did – shared a rented house with other couples – three others in our case. Each pairing had their own living room slash bedroom but shared a communal kitchen and bathroom.', 'It wasn’t ideal. Sundays were particularly challenging, as everyone wanted to cook their dinner at the same time!', 'In 1959, when my wife became pregnant, I promised her that by the time our child was born, we would be living in our own house. But despite my promise, I didn’t actually know how to buy a house in England.', 'Thankfully, a Polish landlady – who rented out a house next door to where we lived – taught me all I needed to know and with a £70 deposit and a mortgage, we bought our first place for £1,200.\xa0\xa0', 'Almost 70 years on from when I first set foot in England, I consider myself to have two places I can call ‘home’.', 'Settling into life in England was a challenge to begin with. However, through my jobs in the chemical, textile and engineering industries – as well as a couple of years of self-employment in the 1970s as a mobile grocer – I got to know more about English people and their culture.', 'As a family with three children, we got to see different parts of the UK through our annual holidays to London to visit family or sometimes day trips or holidays to other counties, such as Lancashire and Derbyshire.', 'Up until I retired, I was always able to work and manage my finances so that I could support both my family in England, but also my father and other relatives in Grenada.\xa0\xa0', 'Looking back at my 19-year-old self, I find it hard to believe that I took the risk of venturing alone into a totally unknown world. But I have no regrets – I’d do it all over again because I’m satisfied that I achieved what I set out to do all those years ago in 1955.', 'As told to Ruth McGuire']"
29,"['As a keen amateur musician, my father surrounded himself with composers, so this became a part of my life by extension.', 'Unfortunately, that’s something I’ve personally dealt with during my youth too.', 'One of my dad’s closest friends, Avdo Smailovic, was a famous composer, and his daughter was my piano teacher. She taught me when I was 14 for four years at the music school in Sarajevo.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'There had been offensives leading up to the war and people were nervous. This tension built up and on the eve of the war breaking out, I felt that I had no choice but to flee for my life.', 'Unfortunately, my brother and parents had to stay in my hometown because they did not have valid passports. They encouraged me to go through.', 'Leaving them behind was easily the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do and to make matters worse, there was very little means for communication back then so we couldn’t regularly check on each other.', 'After I packed up my life into a suitcase, I made my way to Belgrade in Serbia via train from Montenegro, which was extremely busy.', 'People were scared and we all piled into the carriages. I was relieved to have caught the train, but I was very worried for my family and scared for their safety. The journey took about 10 hours.', 'Serbia was dangerous because it was close to the war, so I only stayed there for just over a week. I met a lot of people fleeing from Bosnia and we all wanted to get as far away as possible.', 'I didn’t really know where to go so I travelled to Ljubljana in Slovenia, where my friends lived. It was such a relief to finally get there and see people I knew.', 'By then, Slovenia was an independent nation, but it was very new so there was a lot of uncertainty and worry. There was a sense of uneasiness, and it was full of people trying to get away.', 'I was very lucky that, by chance, I was able to come to the UK towards the end of 1992. It was through a convoy that was coordinated by a church, which brought a few coaches of Bosnian refugees from Slovenia to England.', 'In October 1992 – still aged only 24 – I arrived in the north of England in Darlington. Volunteers from all over the country helped me form a new life for myself.', 'They did all the practicalities, including helping me to find accommodation and even assisting me to finish my studies. I was very touched by their care and support.', 'It was such a culture shock for me but, at the same time, I was so relieved to have found safety.', 'From day one, I just kept thinking about my family though. I feared for them, especially as – about a year into the war – my mum was wounded by a shell outside the house. I only found this out weeks later when I managed to make contact with them through a radio operator.', 'For comfort, I turned to music, which helped in some way to alleviate the worry.', 'After completing my studies in 1994, I was lucky to secure a job with a Bosnian Association in Birmingham as a volunteer coordinator.', 'It was during that time that I decided to apply for a Music Therapy Course at the Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy Centre in London to combine my musical skills and experience of working with people who were most in need of both psychological and emotional support.', 'From there, I got a job as a music therapist at the charity Freedom from Torture. This was 15 years ago – and I’m still there today. It was a special moment for me, as it felt like everything was coming full circle.', 'This was the reason I wanted to become a music therapist – to work with people who had a refugee background like myself. I hoped to help heal others of their trauma by using the medium of music.', 'Sometimes people find it hard to talk about their torture and all the difficulties they have experienced, so music helps them to communicate. They free themselves through it.\xa0', 'One of my clients said that, to him, making music was like ‘putting a dressing on an open wound’. Another said that playing the music in the session made him forget about all his problems and transported him to a safe place, adding: ‘I want it to be like this all the time.’', 'One particular Iranian client was subject to torture and was punished for playing the guitar. So he would come to therapy and play every instrument but stay away from the guitar, which was a source of trauma for him.', 'We built up trust and eventually he began to play it again. This helped him process his traumatic experiences and overcome depression, telling me he felt lighter and happier. He’s now enrolled onto a music course at college and would like a career in music.', 'Our group therapy sessions can help build confidence and allow people to form friendships too.', 'Witnessing first-hand exactly how music therapy helps people of all ages and nationalities to deal with their traumatic past experiences is so rewarding for me.', 'I have used music to alleviate my own stress and worries that I had during the war in Bosnia. Playing the piano helped me to process my emotions and the trauma at that time.', 'I have been here for over 30 years now, but I make sure I go back to my hometown to visit my family once or twice a year. I am thankful that they are safe and well and do not have to worry.', 'Now, I spend my time doing what I love, working and teaching the piano. I am content.', 'Freedom from Torture is back with The Great Street Feast at BAFA Piccadilly this June to coincide with Refugee Week. The event will see the coming together of leading chefs cooking alongside refugees, with talks including Joanna Lumley in conversation with John McCarthy, followed by comedian and author Alexei Sayle.']"
30,"['I woke up bleary-eyed and groggy in a hospital room with two doctors standing over me.', 'It was August last year and the last thing I remember feeling was hopeless and alone. I had tried to end my own life.', 'I used to love my life in Afghanistan and would never have left if I didn’t have to.', 'I was a university student studying history. Between my studies, helping my dad in his shop and spending time with my family and my friends, I had a full and busy life.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'It seems like someone else’s life now.', 'I had just turned 22 when I had to leave Afghanistan in early 2017. Although I loved my life, it had become increasingly unsafe for me to live there.', 'Even before the Taliban took over the country in August 2021, the political situation was volatile, with attacks against locals and foreigners making it impossible to live in safety.', 'When I left my home country, I was just seeking protection, but I didn’t care where. Soon after I crossed the border into Iran, I understood that country was just as dangerous. It’s not a democracy and people can be persecuted for so many reasons.', 'I travelled on to Turkey, but I didn’t feel safe there either. I was on the road for nine months before I reached the Moria refugee camp on the Greek island of Lesbos. I had never seen anything like it – over 20,000 people trapped in a camp designed for 3,100. ', 'Graffiti at the entrance read ‘Welcome to Moria Prison’ and that is what it felt like.', 'Up Next', 'I was held there for over a year until I was granted humanitarian protection. I found work as an interpreter – of Farsi, Dari and English – but my visa had to be renewed every year, with long waiting times. Because of this, I could lose my job or become undocumented and risk being deported back to Afghanistan.', 'That meant my life was still in danger, so – in November 2021 – I flew to London and applied for asylum. I had no idea what was ahead of me.', 'I didn’t know much about the UK, but I remember how kind the police officer at the airport was when I said I wanted to apply for asylum: I had never experienced kindness from the police in any of the countries I had been in.', 'Four months later, I still had no updates from the Home Office. I was instead moved to a different hotel, hours away.', 'I’d spend days without seeing or talking to anyone. The isolation was excruciating.', 'Nine months after landing in the UK, I was still waiting for the Home Office to decide on my application and feeling like I had traded one prison for another.', 'I was already traumatised by what happened back home and on my journey – things I cannot bear to talk about – and told my assigned therapist that this hotel would destroy my mental health.', 'She and the hotel manager both promised to relay my request to be moved, but after months of calls and letters, nothing changed.', 'We need a new asylum system that processes our applications fast and allows us to work while we wait', 'By now, I was relying on medication just to get to sleep. My therapist just kept telling me to go out walking for my mental health.', 'For months, I did nothing but go walking. I couldn’t hear it anymore, so I just stopped going to therapy.', 'One morning in August, I took the long walk along the highway to the city. I stopped in a park. The weather was lovely. I could see people jogging.', 'As I was standing there, thinking the unthinkable, I told myself: ‘You can’t do that’. So I walked to a hospital nearby, went to the emergency department and told them I was a danger to myself and needed to speak to someone.', 'As I waited, I felt hope for the first time in a long time. Finally, I was in the right place, where someone would take care of me.', 'Eventually, a nurse came to tell me that the hospital didn’t have a walk-in mental health service. I said I needed to be hospitalised, but she just gave me a helpline number to call. There was nothing else to do but go back to the hotel.', 'Again, I tried speaking to the manager but got nowhere. That was when I tried to take my own life.', 'While in the hospital, I couldn’t believe it when they told me – once again – that if I ever felt down, I should try going for a walk. If only they could understand how many hundreds of miles I had walked – and from what – to seek sanctuary here. They discharged me that same day.', 'I was sent back to the same hotel and nothing changed, so the next day, I tried to take my life again. I’m not happy about it. But I felt so unseen, unheard, and I felt like that was my only escape.', 'After this second suicide attempt, I was moved to another hotel in central London.', 'Thankfully, my mental health is better now. I’m doing a photography and video-making course at college, and if my asylum application is granted, I want to work in that field.', 'Up Next', 'I don’t know if – or when – that might happen though so I am still being forced to live in limbo.', 'Simple things like the fact that I haven’t been able to cook a meal for myself since I’ve been in the UK, as there are no facilities we can use at the hotel. The canteen is only open one hour, three times a day, so if you have college or other commitments and are out during that hour, you risk missing your meal. I’ve missed many.', 'I’m still debating if I should go back to therapy. Am I going to be told once again just to ‘go for a walk’? Traumatised people don’t need to be told that.', 'What we need is to be treated like human beings. ', 'Many people think asylum seekers like me live in ‘luxury hotels’, but we don’t.', 'I was one of over 170 asylum seekers who took part in Migrant Voice’s report on asylum accommodation and the asylum process: it found filthy, unsanitary conditions in many of them, racist abuse from staff and revealed the agonising limbo we find ourselves in for years as we wait for a decision on our asylum application.', 'This is why – as recommended by the Migrant Voice report – we need the Home Office to make decisions faster and we should be allowed to work while we wait. This is so we can provide for ourselves and don’t need to rely on the state for our accommodation or our food.', 'If I had been given that freedom, that respect, that chance – my story would have been very different.', 'We need a system that lets us contribute to our host communities and rebuild a life worth living for.', 'The name of the author has been changed to protect their identity.', ""If you're a young person, or concerned about a young person, you can also contact PAPYRUS, the Prevention of Young Suicide UK."", 'Their HOPELINE247 is open every day of the year, 24 hours a day. You can call 0800 068 4141, text 88247 or email:\xa0pat@papyrus-uk.org.']"
31,"['At my lowest point,\xa0I was sleeping on the streets and nearly died of hunger.', 'Even just to wash my face in the winter, I had to go to my friend’s garage\xa0to use their taps,\xa0which felt like ice on my face.', 'I’ve spent years fighting it, but that fight is still not over.', 'I grew up very happy in Jamaica eating a lot of fresh food – including red apples, berries. I lived on fruit. As children, we used to make scooters with wood and wheels, and play with them. There was no racism.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I grew up happy with my grandmother after my mother had moved to the UK in the 60s to better her life – she was working as a seamstress.', 'As my grandmother got older, my mother felt that London would be a good place for me to build my life. So in 1972 – when I was just 16 – I moved from Jamaica to the UK.', 'Straight after I arrived, I moved to Finsbury Park in North London. I was very surprised at how people lived here – so many people crammed into small homes. In Jamaica, I was used to big houses with a lot of garden and green space.', 'I enrolled into college because I wanted to be a doctor, but I never got the opportunity. My mother’s house was too small for us, so I had to quickly find a job so we could have more space to live.', 'I worked as a mechanic and then with British Rail – and that was my life. I settled here. I had two children and eventually, after years of working hard, I got a mortgage and bought a flat for us in Hackney.', 'Unbeknownst to me, while I was living my life and providing for my family, those in power – particularly Home Secretary Theresa May under the Tory Government led by David Cameron – were rolling out anti-immigration policies that would soon ruin the life that I had built, and that of thousands more like me.', 'I became a victim of these policies in 2014. I had recently renewed my passport, and the authorities that had produced my new documents hadn’t re-applied the Indefinite Leave to Remain stamp that I automatically got when I moved here more than 40 years prior.', 'When I moved in 1972, there was still free movement between the UK and its former colonies – this country was inviting us to live here and rebuild after the war.', 'Yet four decades down the line, the Government forgot about our contributions and decided that if you couldn’t prove you had Indefinite Leave to Remain stamped in your passport, you couldn’t work, rent, get public support, have a bank account – you couldn’t do anything.\xa0\xa0', 'That was the beginning of all my troubles. When I approached the authorities to fix this, they said that they had no record of me – even though I had lived here for decades.', 'With more and more people checking on your papers to do anything, and without proof of my status, I lost my job. To add insult to injury, after a lifetime of paying taxes, I was also told I couldn’t access any support, even after I lost my job. I was ruined.', 'After years of never missing a payment, I suddenly couldn’t pay my mortgage anymore. I lost the property that I had worked a lifetime to buy.', 'I ended up on the streets – I spent one and a half years sleeping rough in London. I’m a proud man, I didn’t want my family to know what was happening to me.', 'Up Next', 'While I was forced into this life – and thousands more people in the Windrush generation throughout the country were losing their livelihoods like me – those who had created these policies were sleeping warm and well in their homes, with jobs paid for by our taxes.', 'After months of this life, I had a brain aneurysm. I was in hospital for four months, but when they discharged me, I still couldn’t access any support or housing. I ended up back on the streets in the middle of winter.', 'I could only get help from homelessness charities, one of which referred me to the migrant rights charity Praxis – who said they could help me to get my visa again.', 'At this time, around 2015, it was years before everyone knew about the Windrush scandal – before the Government was forced to recognise their mistake in depriving me and thousands more of our rights and our lives. Even though I knew I had done nothing wrong, there was no easy way for me to get my papers back.', 'My only option was to try to make a very difficult application with the Home Office. I had to find documents and evidence dating back to 1972 – from the moment I had arrived in the UK – all the way to 2015, for every year I had lived here. I had to provide the Home Office with 43 years’ worth of paperwork just to prove what I knew all along – that I had always been living here legally, but I was only missing a stamp on my passport.', 'If I couldn’t find this evidence, there would have been no way for me to leave the streets.', 'It took me years to collect all the papers, with the help of Praxis – doctors’ notes, bank statements, HMRC records, work history – all dating back to decades ago. All this time, I was living in a homeless hostel, afraid that any minute I might end up back on the streets.', 'It took four years of struggling – including losing my property for good – for me to get my rights reinstated. I finally managed to get off the streets – yet my health is now compromised because of all the hardship I was pushed through.', 'Those in power have robbed so many people of their lives, their homes, and their health. They should be held responsible for what they have done to me and others.', 'But I don’t see much evidence of this. You only have to look at the compensation scheme to understand that they aren’t serious about fixing the injustices they caused, or compensating those whose lives they ruined. It’s so difficult to access.', 'I still haven’t managed to apply myself – even though they caused me so much pain – because the process is very complicated. What’s more, my health is deteriorating very fast after all the time I spent on the streets. I’m still in and out of hospital all the time, so making an application would be too hard for me.', 'After over 50 years in this country, I feel so angry that the Government’s ham-fisted anti-immigration policies hurt me and so many others, and so little has been done about it.', 'This must end.', 'It’s nearly six years since the Windrush scandal became headline news. But despite the Government’s big words, little has changed.', 'Instead of righting the wrongs, they seem to be extending the cruelty of the hostile environment – causing more wrongs to more people than ever before.', '*Winston Jones is not the real name of the writer.', 'Main image photo credit: Pål Hansen. This piece was originally published in 2022']"
32,"['During that time, a multitude of emotions – anger, shame, and outrage – accumulated within me. We were all there to try to halt the war and cease the killing of innocent civilians.', 'This outspokenness against my home country is part of the reason why I can’t go back – in fact, this is how I ended up applying for asylum in the UK.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'As I grew older and witnessed the consequences of political activism in Russia, I made a conscious decision not to follow in my father’s footsteps. However, everything changed when the war began.', 'I lived in the Russian city of Taganrog, which is approximately 70km away from the Ukraine border.', 'On 19 February, I witnessed the implementation of a regional state of emergency, accompanied by escalating tensions and a heightened military presence. ', 'Immediately, I thought about the risk of being called upon to serve in the war – considering the proximity of the frontlines.', 'Fearing for my life, I made a swift decision to leave for Moscow and then onto London. Fortunately, I had obtained a six-month UK visa a week prior after a two-week application process.', 'The constant fear of being imprisoned within the country – combined with a limited number of safe destinations to escape to – made me cautious. It justified my strong desire to acquire a valid visa for a country that upholds democratic values.', 'Once onboard, a profound sense of relief washed over me – knowing that I was finally on my way to safety. As the plane took off, leaving behind the turmoil and uncertainty of my homeland, a mixture of emotions overwhelmed me – gratitude for the opportunity to escape, sadness for the loved ones I left behind, and hope for a brighter future.', 'After landing, it took me quite some time to fully grasp the reality of my new surroundings — a reality where I no longer lived in fear of persecution for my anti-war beliefs. I know that I can freely express myself and be heard without repercussions.', 'I also took considerable time to weigh my options. Returning to Russia was not a viable choice because I knew I’d likely be summoned to serve in a war I fundamentally disagree with, so I made the decision to stay and build a new life in the UK.', 'In July 2022, I applied for asylum, recognising the very real risk of persecution should I return home.', 'The asylum process has been relatively smooth, albeit nerve-wracking. Initially, I was unsure where to seek help or advice regarding legal matters or even basic necessities, such as opening a bank account and accessing healthcare.', 'At the same time, I have been actively volunteering for the Russian Democratic Society (RDS), which is an organisation led by individuals who share my opposition to the war. ', 'In April last year, I came across a rally against the war organised by RDS, and without hesitation, I applied to be a steward to assist with organisational matters.', 'Since then, I have taken part in numerous rallies held at Parliament Square and in front of the Russian Embassy. During these rallies, I experienced a profound sense of connection to the global movement striving for a peaceful resolution and supporting Ukraine.', 'Being part of this movement has reinforced my belief in the power of collective action to bring about positive change. But I have no doubt that my involvement with the anti-war movement in the UK has made returning home unsafe for me.', 'In September, I enrolled in college for a software development course and successfully completed it this year. Now I am currently seeking employment as a software developer.', 'Pursuing a career in IT is my ultimate dream, and I am determined to make it a reality.', 'As anticipated, in October last year, I received a summons from the Russian military office to be sent to Ukraine. But that is not something I can do in good conscience.', 'So while I study and work part-time as a waiter, I patiently await a response on my asylum application from the Home Office. I understand that they are making efforts to address the backlog of tens of thousands of applications this year, but many people – including myself – are still awaiting decisions on our fates.', 'Nonetheless, I am grateful for everything that the UK has provided me.', 'Many people – including Russians like me – hold the hope that the conflict will be resolved swiftly. I believe that my home country will eventually recognise Ukraine’s sovereignty, withdraw its military forces, and accept the original borders.', 'On a personal note, I fervently hope that the UK will make a just decision regarding my status, granting me the opportunity to stay. In my homeland, human rights have been consistently abused, rendering it impossible to lead a dignified life with fundamental rights intact.', 'The prospect of finding a new home in the UK – where these rights are upheld – gives me hope for a brighter future.', 'In sharing my experiences, I hope to raise awareness about the plight of asylum seekers and inspire others to recognise the strength that lies within those who have been forced to flee their homes.', 'Together, we can foster compassion, understanding, and a more inclusive world that offers solace and opportunity to those in need.']"
33,"['It wouldn’t be unusual for the phone to ring at 1am to tell me that a lady had gone into labour at her home nearby.', 'I grew up in Tanga, in a house as one of 12 siblings. Different communities did not mingle with each other and white people did not want to talk to us.', 'But we were happy, and we had a good childhood. I remember we had a big mango tree and I would jump onto the rooftop of my friend’s house where we’d eat mangoes together.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I didn’t always want to be a nurse. In fact, I left school to help my father running a corner shop. ', 'It didn’t seem to matter that I couldn’t speak a word of English. My family said: ‘If anybody can survive, she can.’', 'I think I was very naïve and innocent when I moved to the UK in 1959 when I was 19. To this day, I have no idea how I got from Heathrow to Victoria station with my suitcase.', 'Coming from a big family – and leaving them all at home – I suddenly felt so lonely. I think I was also numb with fear. I was so busy thinking about what was going to happen next and where I was going that I didn’t really take in what was around me.', 'I arrived at Royal County Surrey Hospital in Guildford, where my training started. The sisters were quite nasty because I couldn’t speak English at first. They would only give me Monday off, which meant I didn’t have a break in the week and worked very long shifts.', 'The other girls would laugh at me because I didn’t have stockings — why would I, having come from Africa! I felt a bit ashamed, but I had to put up with it.', 'During my midwifery training in the early 1960s, I was given a bicycle and a little suitcase, then was sent to stay with a landlady. That’s when I was cycling to help women in labour.', 'One time, I was riding to a house for a childbirth emergency when I came to a set of traffic lights. In my hometown, we didn’t have those, so I cycled through and the police stopped me.', '‘The red light has got nothing to do with me,’ I tried to argue, although I promised not to do it again.', 'I worked hard to improve my English, and within three years, I became a State Registered Nurse.', 'Straightaway, I went to London to North Middlesex Hospital to do midwifery in 1963, when I was 23 years old. Then I became a State Certified Midwife.', 'In 1964, I flew back to Tanzania. I then met my husband in Kenya where I worked in the Aga Khan Hospital. ', 'We connected through ballroom dancing, which he used to teach on the weekends.\xa0During my time in the UK, I’d managed to go to a couple of classes. ', 'I returned to the UK with him in 1967 and we moved to Cambridge, where I got a job as a senior night sister of elderly care at Brookfields Hospital. We arrived there with just £5 in our pockets and had to look for somewhere to stay.', 'It was terrible because nobody wanted Asians or Indians to rent their flats. Eventually, we were approved for a high-rise flat. It was so dirty and we had to share a bathroom with seven other people.', 'We began looking for a one-bedroom flat, and visited 43 different places before we found somewhere we could call home. ', 'We were delighted when our daughter was born in Cambridge in 1970.', 'Throughout my career, there are some things I’ll never forget. I remember looking after one elderly patient named Ernie, who was very ill. I cared for him when I was doing night duty, and he became fond of me.', 'On one shift, he called me over. ‘Sister Waljee, I have written something for you,’ he said. He gave me a letter, which read: ‘If I go to heaven, and you are not there, I will carve your name on the golden stair. It will be there for the angels to see what a very kind nurse you have been.’', 'I couldn’t believe how beautiful it was. He died not long after that. To this day, I’ve still kept that letter.\xa0', 'Eventually, seven of my siblings came to the UK after me because they knew I was there. Two siblings became state registered nurses, three became mental health nurses, one became a pharmacist and another became the manager of a hospital.', 'We all have worked in the NHS at some stage. Even my grandson’s aim now is to become a doctor.', 'In 1991 – after years of working at Brookfields and often lifting patients with paraplegia – I injured my back. I couldn’t walk for six months, so I eventually retired.', 'Since my injury, I’ve worked in my local British Heart Foundation charity shop. Even my GP knows that I like to keep myself busy.\xa0', 'I am now 83 and my husband is 85. Whenever we have both needed hospital treatment in the UK, we have been cared for by wonderful staff from all over the world: India, Hong Kong, Greece, Myanmar and more.', 'Surgeons, doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, cleaners — every person is so kind and caring, and looks after their patients with a smile. The NHS is so important for this country and perhaps it needs more money put into it —\xa0especially my local hospital, Addenbrooke’s, which is beautiful.', 'The service needs to stay forever.', 'Gulzar’s story features in the Migration Museum’s new exhibition, Heart of the Nation: Migration and the Making of the NHS, open at Leicester Art Museum and Gallery from 30 June.']"
34,"['My 11-year-old daughter, Alisa, is my little princess.', 'She especially loves it when we feed the birds. It makes me very happy as I’m always trying to help her enjoy her life.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The same year we had Alisa, I started DCP Help, a charity to support families like mine who have children with cerebral palsy. In Ukraine, a lot of fathers leave their families if their child is born with a disability.', 'It wasn’t like that for me. I was waiting to be a father for many years – in fact, I was dreaming of her and even thought of her name before she was born.', 'My mission is to be her father, nothing else is as important as that. I can honestly say that I have never felt unhappy with her in my life.', 'But then last year, war broke out in Ukraine. Escaping conflict with your family is one thing, imagine what it’s like if your child has a disability that requires around-the-clock care?', 'I heard the early explosions and it was a shock for several days. I was watching the battles unfold from my balcony in Putrivka – less than 50km from Kyiv – it was like a horrible movie with paratroopers and people shooting each other.', 'It was a dangerous situation, but my years in the army as a young man meant I had my home absolutely prepared. We had everything in reserve – food, electricity from a power generator, fuel, and water.', 'Up Next', 'We spent a week waiting for the chance to get out. Then, during a gap in the fighting, we visited a local village and – when we saw the ruined houses – we immediately decided to leave.', 'The journey out of Ukraine was tough because all the road signs had been torn down. But when we finally made it to the border of Slovakia, we had to wait in lines of cars for around 12 hours. Surprisingly, Alisa handled the journey almost perfectly, as if trying to help us by doing the best she could.', 'This is where we stayed with our friend’s family for three months before getting our documents ready to travel to the UK.', 'During this time, I was still running my charity by helping families of disabled children at the Slovakian border who were struggling to get accommodation, special care, food, hygiene supplies and medication. It can be a nightmare for people with disabilities to stay in a car for 20 hours, but they had no choice.', 'We were very worried waiting for our documents to be approved by the Home Office but when they were, we breathed a big sigh of relief. Arriving in the UK felt like visiting a resort compared to the disaster we just left.', 'For the first six months in the UK, we stayed with our host family in Dickens Heath in Solihull – who were very good friends of ours that I had known for 10 years through work – before moving into a rented property in Birmingham.', 'I have a consulting business called Master Goal, which provides integration services for refugees and migrants, but I am looking to get a better job because I need to be able to cover all the expenses related to my daughter.', 'It’s been very difficult to integrate into the health and social care system. The waiting lists in the UK are a nightmare – we waited nine months for our first appointment with a paediatrician.', 'My child came from a war zone with severe disabilities and gets startled at loud sounds, but there was no way to get an appointment for her. We were really shocked.', 'When it comes to health and social care, I believe children with disabilities should be prioritised – especially those that come from war zones. That’s because these families need rapid access to the right support.', 'Our occupational therapist here tried to help as best she could to get equipment for Alisa, but we still had to wait a long time for it to arrive. We were using an old stroller for nine months to feed Alisa and to take her out for walks – everything with one stroller.', 'It was all unbelievably slow and frustrating.', 'Just to access specialist rehabilitation centres, we’ve had to make two very difficult and expensive journeys abroad with Alisa – to western Ukraine and Turkey. There, she received vital physiotherapy, special massages, osteopathy, intensive occupational therapy, phototherapy and acupuncture.', 'As time passes, I feel more and more at home in the UK. The people are very open and kind. Yes, there are administrative problems, but my daughter is happy and I feel hope in my heart.', 'After a year’s wait, we finally got Alisa a place at a local specialist school starting in September, and until then we have a tutor coming in every day to study with her. We really hope she will receive the additional therapies she needs when she eventually starts at her new school.', 'We have also just got a car through the motability scheme, which has been life-changing for us as we don’t need to fold up the heavy stroller every time we go out.', 'We’re really considering settling in the UK. Not because I don’t love Ukraine. I am dreaming of coming back to see my mother and my friends and to breathe Ukrainian air.', 'But at the same time, I am realistic because I just cannot even imagine what it will be like with the social care system after the war.', 'I am currently doing my best to support my country remotely, through charity work via Rotary UK, as well as several projects like my charity DCP Help or even donating my previous car to the Ukrainian army.\xa0', 'At the end of the day, my daughter is my highest priority.', 'I will do whatever it takes so that she feels supported – it’s the least I can do for my little princess.']"
35,"['My family and I travelled to the UK from Somalia in 1989 to escape the civil war that was raging there. I was only two years old so I don’t remember much about home beyond snapshot images, the confusion and constantly being on the move.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Arriving in the UK in the middle of winter felt like entering another planet. The snow was something I’d only seen in cartoons and the mix of stony, ancient and tall glass new buildings were just as wondrous. A double decker bus blew my toddler mind.', 'I remember the kids from school being welcoming and a Turkish neighbour who had lent us kitchenware.', 'I fell in love with comics before I could read English. I used to borrow TinTin books from the school library, which really helped me learn to read.', 'I was making my own comics soon after, which boosted my writing skills. I’d conjure elaborate stories where I was a globetrotting adventurer or a knight in a fantasy world besieged by dragons.', 'Besides the educational benefits, comics also helped me escape a lot of the grim realities of living on a rough council estate. I carried on making comics to the point where I made it my career.', 'In fact, I recently signed a book deal to write and illustrate a series of books very loosely based on my childhood experiences.', 'On top of that, in June last year, I was emailed by an editor at Scholastic, who had read a piece that I wrote in The Bookseller about the impact that reading stories had on me as an child refugee in helping me learn English, as well as to help provide escapism and connection. They asked if I would be interested in writing a short story for an anthology about refugees called ‘The Power of Welcome’.', 'At the time, I had read a bunch of very stereotypical stories about the refugee experience written by non-refugees so I saw this project as my chance to highlight the importance of us telling our own stories.\xa0', 'I had to take a bit of a leap of faith in entrusting my story to be drawn by an illustrator other than myself though.', 'I was lucky that the artist I collaborated with shared a similar background to me and could imbue the major scenes of my childhood flight to the UK with the serious tragic tension it required – instead of overloading it with a mawkish sentiment.', 'Getting to be a part of this book was so important to me because it’s a fantastic demonstration of the variety of refugee stories other than the typical illegal boat or truck journeys that we see on the news.', 'As my story and many others collected in this anthology illustrate, the British public are a lot more big-hearted and welcoming than some would lead you to believe.', 'But most refugees come to the UK and live what a lot of us take for granted – an ordinary life safe from danger.', 'I think it’s important to share the stories of immigrants in the UK because they enrich our country by contributing fresh perspectives and cuisine.', 'There is so much to be gained by welcoming others. The biggest lesson of all is that diversity is indeed a strength and not a threat.']"
36,"['Every morning for a year, I was made to run barefoot. In every type of weather, they made us run to punish us, make us silent and to stop us from opposing them.\xa0\xa0', 'I was also regularly beaten, which caused many injuries – some of which I still have. My eardrum was damaged so badly from the beating that it took almost two decades and an operation to repair it.\xa0', 'This was my reality while being imprisoned by the Ethiopian government around 20 years ago. My crime? As a student, I protested against the government’s policies.', 'But even after fleeing to the UK, my ordeal wasn’t over. The asylum system felt like a prison of its own.\xa0', 'I was actually born in Eritrea, but my family and I were forced to flee to Ethiopia due to conflict when I was just three years old.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'In this new country, I was a dedicated student before the trouble started. I was passionate about biomedicine, I had good grades and a peaceful life. I was happy and everything was going well for me.\xa0', 'At university, I was politically active so I joined the opposition party in Ethiopia. While still a student, I took part in a peaceful demonstration against the government.', 'We were protesting against the arrest of journalists, the lack of democracy or freedom of speech and for our own freedom. But I was soon arrested by the police and falsely accused of organising the whole thing.', 'The government imprisoned me for a year and used techniques to punish me, including torture. They asked me who the leader of the demonstration was, accusing me of being one of them and asked me why I participated. It was hell.\xa0', 'I eventually managed to escape the prison and I was so determined to flee Ethiopia. My body was on autopilot. So I did – leaving my family, home and life behind. I was only 21 years old.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'There was no safe and legal route for me to take, so I was forced to take any chance I could to try and reach safety. It was a long and dangerous journey to reach the UK.\xa0', 'I had to leave Ethiopia, travelling by car and then walking over the border to Sudan. I just wanted to put as much distance as possible between my past and my future. Distance made everything feel safer.\xa0', 'When I got to the UK, I found that my journey wasn’t over. I feel that the policies around asylum are designed to be hostile to people in my situation.\xa0', 'I thought the officials in charge would be more understanding of me and of the unspeakable things people like me escape from. But instead, border officers locked me up in a room with other refugees. I just felt like I was in another kind of prison.\xa0', 'This kind of treatment was incredibly difficult for me. People like me should not be locked up after we have been through so much and simply need a place of sanctuary.\xa0\xa0', 'It took two years to get Discretionary Leave to Remain, which lasted for three years. After that, I reapplied and got another three years. Then I was finally able to apply for Indefinite Leave to Remain, which was granted in 2020.\xa0', 'After all that, I got citizenship last year.', 'That means it’s taken me over 21 years – more than two decades and nearly half my life – for the UK to see me as a British citizen. I believe it took this long because of hostile policies and a culture of disbelief at the Home Office.\xa0', 'Sadly, things are now getting even harder for asylum seekers. I’ve seen the UK asylum system go from bad to incomprehensibly worse.\xa0', 'The Government has pushed through their Illegal Migration Bill, which will effectively ban people like me from entering the UK and claiming asylum. The need for a just, humane, and effective asylum system for refugees has never been so great.\xa0', 'I wish asylum seekers who go through terrible trauma like I did are treated fairly and with dignity if they come to our shores', 'I never thought I’d live in the UK. I also never thought I’d be tortured in Ethiopia. ', 'I now have a safe and peaceful life, as well as a lovely wife and two wonderful kids. In 2012, despite obtaining a place at Greenwich University, I was declined by student finance because of my status at the time, which was Discretionary Leave to Remain.\xa0\xa0', 'Student finance told me that they couldn’t lend to me because my future was uncertain. Finally, after all this time, I am now able to continue my studies in civil engineering.\xa0', 'Despite everything, I’ve met some of the kindest people you can imagine in the UK. The friendship, warmth, and compassion that people have shared with me are things that I’ll never take for granted.\xa0', 'The fact that I can even talk about my future is in large part due to Freedom from Torture, which is a charity that provides clinical and legal assistance to people like me who have survived torture.\xa0', 'I had one-to-one sessions with clinicians who specialise in torture therapy, and then I later attended group art classes with other survivors. It was my first time creating art.\xa0', 'I am finally able to communicate how I was feeling and therapy has taught me to stand up against the people who had tried to silence me.\xa0', 'I’m glad I’m here. I love my new life.\xa0', 'I just wish asylum seekers who go through terrible trauma like I did are treated fairly and with dignity if they come to our shores.', 'The name of the author has been changed to protect their identity.\xa0', 'Freedom from Torture is a registered British charity that supports people who have survived torture to heal, feel safe and strong again. Together with a movement of compassionate people, we speak out to expose torture and defend the rights of survivors, nationally and globally.\xa0']"
37,"['I received a call from my sister the other night. ‘I thought you may want to know, the house opposite ours has caught fire.’', 'Since that call, my entire neighbourhood has been engulfed.', 'My hometown is a victim in the circle of fire that has taken over the Mediterranean, from Spain to the Greek Islands, leaving no place unscathed.', 'I am from the Sicilian capital of Palermo in the south of Italy, which on Wednesday reached 47 degrees Celsius, the highest recorded temperature on the island since tracking began in 1791, causing deadly wildfires to break out.', 'The wind caused the flames to spread through the mountains, around the coast, near the city. Houses were burnt, the airport was closed and Hospital Cervello was evacuated. As the body count rose, historic buildings were destroyed and natural reserves were put under threat of being wiped out of existence permanently.', 'Disbelief doesn’t quite cover it. Neither does anger, or shock.', 'I haven’t lived in Sicily for a few years now, after leaving to study in Scotland, then making my home in the North East. Yet, what my hometown has been going through hurts as if I was there.', 'Knowing my family isn’t safe, and knowing many of the beautiful places and nature I grew up with won’t be there when I next return, has opened a gap in my heart.', 'More than that, the tragedy has put into perspective what is happening here, in my new UK home.', 'Where I live, in Yorkshire, it hasn’t stopped raining and hailing for three weeks now, and the forecast suggests it will continue this way. To think that just a month ago, the country recorded the hottest June on record, reaching upwards of 32°C.', 'And who can forget when, last year, the Government issued a red weather warning as London reached 40°C.', 'From summer hailstorms to scorching heat waves, there is no denying we are dealing with abnormal climate conditions. It may be a different type of disaster, but the root is the same.', 'Here in the UK, we are seeing how climate change is affecting other countries in very extreme ways, and yet I fear we fail to see how we are next.', 'The only thing that sparks hope in my heart at such times of hardships are my firsthand experiences of how the UK is capable of building community.', 'When the war in Ukraine broke out, the UK rallied to help in whatever way they could, whether that be through donations, fundraising or even offering their homes to refugees. ', 'During the Covid lockdowns, people cheered for the medical staff, looked out for neighbours and came together in a way like no other.\xa0', 'It didn’t matter they were already struggling themselves, it was the right thing to do.\xa0', 'The fight to help was relentless, and everybody seemed to share a sense of selfless responsibility.\xa0', 'I believe we are at another momentous time in history,\xa0one that\xa0requires\xa0that\xa0same community spirit. The fight\xa0against\xa0climate change is only going to have an impact if we work together –\xa0and I’m proud to see that’s exactly what people in my home country are doing.', 'Many people I know back home refuse to believe in climate change. There is a sense of surrender in the Mediterranean, a belief that since we’re the land of the sun, we are doomed to suffer it through the harshest degree.', 'But now I’ve seen\xa0people band together, offering shelter and food to displaced communities and doing their bit to pick up the pieces.\xa0Posts\xa0offering food, clothes, and shelter in their own homes flooded social media. ', 'Soon, stories of three families living under the same roof to help each other out reached the national news.\xa0\xa0']"
38,"['One thousand three hundred and thirty pounds.', 'That’s how much it costs to become a British citizen – I couldn’t believe it when I saw this eye-watering amount for the first time a few years ago.', 'So I just didn’t – and still haven’t. In fact, I won’t.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'It was a wonderful experience, apart from the funny-tasting sandwiches with some meaty sandwich paste that my host gave me every day. I fell in love with this land of scones, fish and chips and affordable Indian food.', 'Ever since this trip, I have had amazing holidays in the UK, travelling right across the country – mainly by train. I discovered the enticing landscapes of Yorkshire, Cumbria and Northumberland. I particularly like the rolling hills and mature trees in fields, which is lacking in the Dutch countryside.', 'On top of that, the people I have met are so nice too: welcoming and helpful. Being white and speaking English fluently (but with an accent) has meant I haven’t encountered any overt discrimination. People just mishear my name and call me Monica all the time.', 'It was also the rise of right-wing parties in the Netherlands under the leadership of Pim Fortuyn – who was later assassinated – which made me extremely uncomfortable. I didn’t recognise the country anymore.', 'We used to be a very tolerant nation accepting people, whatever their background, religion or sexual orientation. I still hold these values high.', 'So in the last year of my study of land and water management as a mature student at Larenstein University in Velp, I managed to get a six-week placement with the Yorkshire Dales Rivers Trust in 2007. To do so, I lived and worked in beautiful Swaledale, where I was offered a place to live, but it was expensive as I had no income during that time.', 'Then, after graduating that same year, I was thrilled to be offered a job with Natural England as a land management adviser.', 'I really enjoyed living in the Northeast, but I found it hard to make friends. I met a Yorkshire guy in 2011 – named Julian – living in Cumbria, so the decision to move there after a few years was easy.', 'As it currently stands, I can only vote in local elections, but I would very much like to vote for national elections too. The Labour Party might put in its manifesto the right to vote for all those who have ‘leave to remain’, which would make me feel accepted again.', 'Failing that, is it worth well over a thousand pounds to get citizenship, to be officially British?\xa0Although I would also quite like to have two passports, it is just too expensive. It would mean I couldn’t visit my family and friends for a year.', 'I work a part-time job and with the current cost of living crisis, all incoming money goes to bills, cat food (which doubled in price) and our own food. So for now, I am going to leave it and concentrate on enjoying my life.']"
39,"['I was clearly overwhelmed by fear.\xa0', 'Within a week, my whole life would change. I’d leave everything behind – including my mother – to start a new life in the UK.', 'They informed me of the Taliban’s takeover in Mazar-e-Sharif, where their focus was on the military and journalists. So I reached out to my British journalist acquaintance via email, describing my predicament and seeking assistance for relocation.', 'The morning of 15 August at around 7:45am brought a distressing call from a colleague, alerting me to the Taliban’s proximity to Kabul. It felt as if scalding water had been poured over me, extinguishing my hopes and aspirations.', 'While my co-worker advised against going to work, I did it anyway. Later that day, we received information that the Taliban were approaching our office, so I hastily left work and made my way home as quickly as I could.', 'While on my way, I received a call from a friend in London who informed me about the need to urgently book a flight for my relocation, with support from the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ).', 'They – with aid from my British journalist friend – took on the task of facilitating our urgent relocation. However, the flight – booked for two days later – was cancelled after the Taliban gained control.', 'On 18 August, a call from the UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) informed me that no belongings were necessary – only water and snacks for the children. In haste, I selected a cherished pen that was reminiscent of my studies and journalism. I also grabbed some jewellery and sentimental tokens from my parents.', 'Leaving behind the life I had painstakingly built – complete with comforts, memories and my own mother – for an uncertain future was heart-wrenching. I was filled with fear and anxiety as we headed to Kabul airport on an army-chartered flight with the assistance of the British Ministry of Defence.', 'It felt like I had no hope of surviving that day.', 'My heart raced and I instinctively tried to shield my face, concealing my identity from the Taliban. I feared that one of them might recognise me at the checkpoint and kill me.', 'My thoughts were consumed with worry about my children’s safety and the uncertainty of their future. As a result, I found solace in reciting passages from the holy Quran for protection.', 'At the checkpoint, armed Taliban soldiers brandishing guns and improvised weapons manned the area. It was distressing witnessing their mistreatment of individuals lacking proper documentation.', 'Our path to the British Army checkpoint meant we had to climb a barbed wire fence. My children trembled with fear.', 'During the approximately 24 hours we spent at the airport at Baron Camp, anxiety gnawed at me, exacerbated by concerns about potential explosions or attacks. The safety and future of my children weighed heavily on my mind.', 'My son’s continuous tears and pleas for his grandmother amplified my distress. Meanwhile, my daughter sought answers about our future, and I found myself unable to provide reassuring responses about our new life.', 'Truthfully, hope was elusive and the destination was uncertain. Finally, the plane lifted off, but I was sleep-deprived and laden with anxiety.', 'On 20 August, we arrived in the UK after a stopover in Dubai and were welcomed by a sense of safety that had been absent since the turmoil began.\xa0', 'Following a 12-day quarantine in a hotel, my children and I spent a month with relatives of my ex-husband. The Wycombe Refugee Partnership – in collaboration with Buckinghamshire County Council – arranged temporary housing for us, though we later returned to a hotel as our relocation processing continued.', 'The ensuing six months presented unique challenges, like the fact that my children’s education was disrupted and my solitude intensified as I sought familiarity in a new environment.', 'Initiating a new chapter at 32 years old brought profound challenges. Leaving my mother – who had cared for my children and attended to household duties – was particularly heart-rending.', 'Now aged 65, she remains alone in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, there is no way for my mother to reunite with us through any process by the British Government until I have my British passport.', 'In February last year, we resettled in High Wycombe. My children resumed schooling, while I engaged in English and professional development courses, including a six-month journalism course with the Refugee Journalism Project (RJP).', 'As for work, while I had communicated in my native language as a journalist in Afghanistan, mastering English has become a personal goal. It’s a means to express the array of thoughts and emotions I carry.', 'Subsequently, I embarked on a communication assistant fellowship with the Refugee Council and UAL, and I am now employed as a reporter with the BBC Afghan service desk.', 'While I was offered a place in a London university for a master’s degree, financial constraints stemming from my refugee status led me to defer enrolment, seeking scholarships to support my family as a single mother.', 'Two years on from the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, my heart aches as I witness the world seemingly forgetting the plight of Afghan women and girls who remain there. They are deprived of access to their fundamental rights, such as education and work.']"
40,"['War and conflict is no stranger to me.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'So when I got offered a scholarship to study a civil engineering university course abroad, I took it. After several years, I came back to my home country and started working with the United Nations, helping to build local infrastructure in Kabul.', 'Up Next', 'I later joined a company that had several contracts with NATO, establishing things like rehabilitation centres for people living with disabilities, as well as projects to undermine the terrorist organisation in the country.', 'I had to flee the country, but I didn’t want to raise suspicion by immediately trying to leave so I waited in hiding for a few months. Within this time, there were house-to-house raids, which meant I had to move around in order not to be caught.', 'Thankfully, I managed to secure a visa for Pakistan, so – after a long process – I was able to leave the country. Packing up my life and having to leave Afghanistan brought up a mix of emotions – from sadness to relief.', 'I stayed in Pakistan for over six months, but then I started to hear of Afghans being captured and taken back home or killed on the spot. So, in desperation, I applied for a temporary student visa in countries across Europe – including Germany and the UK – and was relieved to be able to fly out to the latter at the end of last year.', 'I genuinely didn’t know I had to apply for asylum as soon as I landed at the airport. To claim asylum, I thought I had to go to an immigration office and fill forms like at visa centres. I was also dealing with long-term sciatica and kidney conditions, which got worse when I came to the UK and delayed my asylum claim for a couple of weeks.', 'Then in January this year, I had my initial meeting with the Home Office to present my case for asylum. This is where I was declared illegal and liable to deportation because I was told that my intention was to claim asylum, but didn’t mention it to the immigration officer at the airport and entered as a student.']"
41,"['I have a distinct childhood memory of being in Bangladesh and seeing an old man who only had one leg.\xa0', 'He was using a pair of crutches so, with no understanding or appreciation of his situation, I took his stick and imitated his walking.', 'Seeing this unfold, my father apologised to him, then sat him down and gave him a meal.', 'Later that day, Dad took me aside and taught me how to see through the eyes of others less fortunate than me. I was around 10 years old and my family and I were visiting our home country after we moved to the UK a few years earlier. It was a truly humbling experience.\xa0', 'This is just one example of how I look up to my father. Over the years, he’s sacrificed so much for my family and I – not least for us to have a better life in the UK.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'My father arrived in the UK – without my mother, sister or me – at the age of 17 in 1962 via a commonwealth employment voucher. The plan was for him to set up a life for us in London, then bring us out to join him.', 'His first years in the UK were hard.', 'He made £4 and eight shillings a week, while working in an Italian restaurant in London as what he called ‘the dishwasher’. He lived in a single room with four other men, but would occasionally sleep on the Tube to keep warm.', 'With his hard work, he was able to save and earn enough to start his own curry restaurant in Brixton, along with a few others. Working day and night gave the opportunity for my mother, sister and myself to come over in 1973 to join him when I was five years old.', 'I remember the first day we arrived as if it was yesterday. I walked into a flat in King’s Cross – where the bathtub doubled as a dining table in the kitchen – and I was amazed to see a black and white TV for the first time.', 'We soon settled in Fulham in a council flat that we didn’t have to share, thankfully.', 'Curry houses were very popular in the 1970s. But, as a boy sitting in my dad’s restaurant, I lost count of the number of times I heard ‘pappadam’ and ‘vindaloo’ ordered with the strongest imitating Indian accent.', 'None of this phased my dad and he would always be polite, charming and helpful. He had this ability to make anyone feel special.\xa0', 'At the time, poor housing conditions, the recession and police discrimination created the perfect storm for the Brixton Riots. I remember that my father had closed his shop during the riots, only to come back and find it burned and looted, with broken windows.', 'I attended the local comprehensive school in Fulham, where I have fond memories, but also incidents of racism too. I soon realised that all South Asians were termed ‘P**i’.', 'As a result, I tried hard to assimilate, but in order to do that, I felt I had to downplay a lot of my own identity in order to be more ‘British’, like the fact that I attended mosque on the weekends. However, I had good friends around me and started doing well at school.', 'Unfortunately, my father was never around, as he worked seven days a week. His business was thriving and he soon opened several others. The furthest was in Swansea, where he would journey every Sunday, returning at 3am, only to go back to work in London by 8am.\xa0', 'In the time I did spend with him, he would instil a seed of confidence in me that I could achieve anything. I started to believe this, as if it was the bible. I loved these times with him because he had the ability to make you feel nothing was impossible.', 'I wish my school had shared the same sentiment. I remember a meeting with one particular teacher, when I said I wanted to do medicine. She replied that I should be ‘realistic’ because nobody goes to university from our school, let alone medical college.', 'Nobody in the family had been to university but, with my father’s encouragement – as well as fire in my belly from my careers advisor’s rejection – I started believing it was possible.\xa0', 'I worked hard to gain my O-levels, then my A-levels at Dulwich College. I was thrilled to later get into medical school.', 'I ended up delivering pizza, working as a DJ and as a youth worker – all while studying, and sometimes all three on the same weekend.', 'My father continued to support me emotionally throughout it all, always reminding me that ‘hard work is the only way up’, but also really pushed me to grow too. His words would never be far away, teaching me to always do my best – even if the job you are doing is just making a cup of tea.', 'When I graduated as a doctor, although it was a celebration, much of what I felt was relief that my father’s dream was finally being fulfilled. It was a culmination of all his hard work and belief that we can be better.\xa0', 'My first few years as a junior doctor are some of my happiest memories. Although I worked 80-90 hours a week, I knew how to work hard and play hard. I literally lived in the hospital and while I felt exhausted, I remembered to celebrate life.', 'I had boundless energy and sleeping a few hours a day was norm.', 'I’m now a Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon, which means I operate on joints – most often total hip or knee replacements. I do my best for every patient and sit down to listen to what they want from their surgery – the lives they want to get back.', 'I am proud to have established a service in London where patients can choose to go home on the same day as their operation. Being at home has numerous benefits for the patient and helps them recover faster and manage pain better, but also means we have increased our capacity to see more patients and therefore help reduce waiting lists.', 'I believe our lives are just a ripple in time. But, like my father – who now has Parkinson’s – I want to leave a footprint in the sand.']"
43,"['Police had to break up groups of protesters who clashed over the controversial asylum seeker barge docking in Dorset.', 'The football pitch-sized Bibby Stockholm vessel, which will house 500 male asylum seekers, anchored in Portland Port yesterday morning.', 'Two small crowds gathered to demonstrate against the barge – but for different reasons.', 'On the other side, No to the Barge does not want migrants housed in the area, with several women saying it makes them feel unsafe.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Footage shows one woman saying ‘I don’t feel safe in my own town’ before another tells her: ‘You’re statistically more likely to be raped by someone you know.’', 'A different woman holding a sign that reads ‘wakey wakey Portland’ then argued no one in the community knows the migrants’ background.', 'A row between Stand Up To Racism and No To The Barge has broken here at Portland Port as both protest against the barge pic.twitter.com/e4vYJvWtro', 'Stand Up to Racism could be heard chanting over the debate: ‘No hate, no fear, refugees are welcome here.’', 'The woman who previously said she felt unsafe responded with ‘f**k off’ while a police officer talks to both sides.', 'She then shouts: ‘They’re not asylum seekers, they’re illegal immigrants.’', 'Stand Up to Racism Dorset posted an audio clip of a man saying ‘when you get raped, I’ll laugh my a** off’ before a woman replied with ‘that’s disgusting’. ', 'Sammy Gray, 37, told The Guardian: ‘We don’t know any background of these men. Where’s the women, why aren’t the children with them? I’m going to have to pick up my 16-year-old daughter from work because I’m scared.', '‘I will not go out. It’s almost putting my kids back into lockdown. I’m petrified. This beach is where we come to watch the dolphins. There’s no chance I can do that now.’', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'In the No to the Barge Facebook group, some members refer to asylum seekers as ‘gimmegrants’.', 'One commenter wrote ‘the majority are just coming over because they know they will get treated (better than us) and rape our girls because their attitude is “well we do it in our country”‘.', 'The Bibby Stockholm is one of three ships the Government was planning to use to house asylum seekers.', 'But the other two have not been able to find a berth and have been sent back to their owners, Sky News reported.', 'Asylum seekers are not due on the Bibby Stockholm for another week, starting with a group of around 50 and then set to gradually inccrease.', 'The Government is paying a private firm £1.6 billion to manage the Bibby Stockholm and has given Dorset Council £3,5000 per occupied bed space, along with a one-off grant of almost £380,000.', 'The barge is not officially a detention facility but migrants will ‘not be able to move around the port’ and will have to stay on the boat or in a nearby ‘secure compound’, local authorities said.', 'A bus service will be run to take asylum seekers to different locations in the area.', 'Portland Port said all the men on the barge, aged between 18 and 65, will ‘receive cultural awareness advice aimed at ensuring they understand the social norms in the UK’.', 'Dorset Police said: ‘We are aware of current protests taking place on Portland and officers are proactively engaging with protest organisers to ensure people can exercise their right to protest legally and safely without causing significant or ongoing disruption to residents and business. ', '‘We have been preparing for the arrival of the Bibby Stockholm and are confident that we have plans in place to respond to any increase of demand.’']"
45,"['Scientists are searching for a group of women who were fed radioactive chapatis in the 1960s as part of a ‘deeply troubling’ medical experiment into the absorption of iron.', 'The disturbing story of a 1969 study that saw 21 Indian-origin women from Coventry given bread laced with Iron-59 – an iron isotope with a gamma-beta emitter – recently resurfaced after Coventry MP Taiwo Owatemi demanded an investigation into the decades-old medical research.', 'Ms Owatemi’s calls sparked a wave of viral posts on TikTok and X, formerly known as Twitter, with users branding the experiment ‘shocking’, ‘disgusting’, and ‘deeply, deeply unethical’.', 'Many of the women exposed to radioactive substances had gone to their GP for help with minor health issues, such as migraines. This sparked concern about widespread anaemia in the UK’s South Asian community.', 'Medical professionals suspected traditional South Asian diets were to blame for the deficiency, and decided to deliver flatbreads laced with Iron-59 to participants’ homes.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'After consuming the bread, the women were taken to have their radiation levels measured at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment at Harwell in Oxfordshire, to determine how much iron had been absorbed.', 'The study concluded that ‘Asian women should take extra iron because the iron in the flour was insoluble’.', 'But there have long been concerns that the women tested, many of whom are believed to have been immigrants with limited English, were not provided with enough information to give informed consent.', 'These issues came to light in 1995 Channel 4 documentary Deadly Experiments which sparked an independent inquiry into the experiment funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC).', 'The report was published in 1998 and ‘recognised that research practice, ethics and regulation had moved on significantly since the experiments were originally undertaken’.', '‘The inquiry directly resulted in new guidance and additional improvements have been made since then,’ the MRC said in a statement on Wednesday.', 'A historian has revived public interest in the story, after her X thread on what happened attracted more than 6.6 million views.', 'She said no one had followed up with the women who were experimented on to see if they had become sick.', 'Coventry North West MP Taiwo Owatemi said the discussion ‘deeply concerned’ her and promised to call for a debate about it when Parliament returns in September.', 'I am appalled and concerned about the information shared regarding the 1969 â\x80\x98Chipatiâ\x80\x99 study using South Asian women from Coventry.My foremost concern is for the women and the families of those who were experimented on in this study. pic.twitter.com/0FwMoYvt9z', 'She wrote: ‘My foremost concern is for the women and families of those who were experimented on in this study.', '‘From what I understand from speaking with the researcher and reading the reports, it seems that consent was not sought nor proper information given to the women at the time they took part in the experiment.', '‘This is horrifying and I am deeply disturbed that a community here in Coventry was targeted for research without them being able to give informed consent.’', 'I know that people across Coventry â\x80\x93 and especially in the cityâ\x80\x99s South Asian community â\x80\x93 are very concerned at reports of a research study that took place in Coventry in the 1960s, where 21 South Asian women were fed chapatis containing radioactive iron salts.My statement: pic.twitter.com/CRoE7z5sTW', 'Coventry South MP Zarah Sultana said: ‘I understand that in the intervening years, the women have still not been identified, meaning that errors of the past have still not been addressed.', '‘I am shocked that in spite of having been exposed decades ago, the South Asian community in Coventry has still not had a full explanation of what happened.', '‘I therefore support calls for a statutory inquiry into this study and the way these women were treated, ensuring that the community gets answers to what happened.’', 'Public and patient involvement, ethical practice and trust is critical to the work of the Medical Research Council (MRC) and the whole medical research community. That includes both public and patient involvement in our research but also transparency, accountability and public challenge to what we do and how we do it.', 'The issue of radioisotopes (radioactive tracers) within studies funded by MRC in the 1950s and 1960s was raised by a Channel 4 television documentary in 1995 and has recently been the subject of renewed discussion on X (formerly Twitter). This included a clinical study on absorption of iron from chapatti made of wheat flour.', 'The issues were considered following the broadcast of the documentary in 1995 and an independent inquiry was established at that time to examine the questions raised.', 'The inquiry, chaired by Rabbi Julia Neuberger, then Chief Executive of the King’s Fund, London,\xa0published its report in May 1998\xa0(and it has\xa0remained publicly available ever since at the British Library).\xa0The report did recognise that research practice, ethics and regulation had moved on significantly since the experiments were originally undertaken and made a series of recommendations. The inquiry directly resulted in new guidance and additional improvements have been made since then.', 'It is also important to note that work by the MRC, and across the sector, has and continues to strengthen approaches to\xa0public and patient involvement, ethics and regulation.', 'MRC remains committed to the highest standards of integrity in the way\xa0individuals are involved in research\xa0and in the way research areas are identified, including a commitment to engagement, openness and transparency.', 'Source: UKRI']"
46,"['I was baffled as a friend of mine recently told me that she was avoiding having a conversation with her other half about kids. ', 'All because she had an inkling that he doesn’t want them.', 'They are both in their early 30s and have been together for three years. They discussed it briefly at the start of their relationship and he mentioned not being overly keen on becoming a dad. ', 'But they swept the chat under the rug and decided it was a problem for another day. Unfortunately, the chicken has come home to roost.', 'I encouraged my friend to be honest about her feelings because dragging things on would only hurt them both. She took my advice and they are trying to figure out what their future looks like.', 'Having never wanted children myself (and no, I won’t change my mind, even if it means I ‘grow old alone’, as people like to tell me), my biological clock isn’t an issue. Mine isn’t ticking, it just sits silently waiting for the batteries to run out.', 'When it comes to dating, having no desire to procreate sometimes serves in my favour – but only because I’m brutally honest about it. I have a fool-proof method to avoid the type of situation my friend is in and it’s one I recommend that you try out.\xa0', 'Put simply: if you don’t want to risk being stuck in a bind years from now, bring up the ‘kids versus no kids’ question on the first date.', 'It’s only fair that I start by offering up a pound of flesh.', 'Love reading juicy stories like this? Need some tips for how to spice things up in the bedroom? ', ""Sign up to The Hook-Up and we'll slide into your inbox every week with all the latest sex and dating stories from Metro. We can't wait for you to join us!"", 'Following a painful break-up earlier this year, I’ve been dipping my toe back into the water by re-downloading a few dating apps and updating my profiles, most of which include a section about kids.', 'I actually tend to leave this blank, but I’m not a hypocrite, I promise.', 'It’s because I’ve been criticised many times in my life for not wanting to become a mum by strangers, dates and friends, and it’s not something I’m willing to discuss in a DM. Plus, even I agree that saying ‘how about babies’ before we’ve even met is a bit much.', 'Once date number one rolls around however, it’s a different matter. I don’t bring it up immediately – and I don’t recommend you do either – but if the conversation veers to family, I tend to sneak it in where possible.', '‘I don’t want kids,’ I’ll say casually, all the while gauging the other person’s reaction.\xa0', 'Perhaps I’ve just been lucky, but so far no one has run away screaming. If anything, the reactions have been very positive.', 'One date told me he respected my choice, but confessed that he wants bundles of joy. Another person said he couldn’t care less about being a dad. A third man shared that he wasn’t sure how he felt, but appreciated that I was so upfront about it.\xa0', 'I’ve applied the same honesty with past long-term boyfriends; we’ve not always discussed the matter on the first date, but normally very early on in our relationship. Partially because I don’t want there to be any ambiguity and I don’t want to hurt anyone’s feelings (because, again, I won’t change my mind).', 'I’ve not always been given the same courtesy, including by people who already have children.', 'A man I was seeing when I was in my early 20s decided not to tell me he was a dad-of-two until our second date. I didn’t mind his parental status and I could understand that he may have been worried about my reaction, but it felt strange that he had kept this to himself.\xa0', 'It made me question his motives. We didn’t discuss it at length and our romance soon fizzled (though not related to this).', 'I understand that my method might sound extreme. When I told a male friend about it, his first reaction was ‘that would terrify me’ – and perhaps you, dear reader, echo his thoughts.', 'I get it – being honest, especially at the start of a potential relationship, is scary. I’m also aware that my way of approaching the ‘family dilemma’ might seem easier because I don’t want one.', 'But there are pros and cons whichever way you throw the coin.\xa0', 'We often question our choices, especially if they go against the grain. Some of us worry how others will see us or if being too open will cut our dating pool down before we’ve even started.\xa0', 'This isn’t just about having versus not having kids.\xa0', 'You don’t actually have to tell someone that the sight of newborns makes you feel warm and fuzzy inside until you’re ready to do so – but consider asking yourself why you’re afraid to share what you want from your future. (You could easily apply this method to any other aspect of dating.)']"
47,"['As I looked out of the plane window down at the country I was leaving behind, I couldn’t help but cry.', 'I had no idea when I’d be coming back to Nigeria, but I needed to leave for my own safety.\xa0', 'More than four years later, I still haven’t been able to go home – if I do, I’m terrified I’ll be killed for being gay.', 'That’s why recent remarks from Home Secretary Suella Braverman make me sick.', 'In a keynote speech in Washington yesterday, she said: ‘We will not be able to sustain an asylum system if, in effect, simply being gay or a woman, and fearful of discrimination in your country of origin is sufficient to qualify for protection.’', 'Her comments prove yet again that politicians responsible for life-and-death decisions couldn’t be more divorced from reality or out of touch.', 'When I realised I was gay during my childhood, it was the elephant in the room that I knew should never be addressed.', 'Up Next', 'When I was about eight or nine, I lived and dreamed in colours – I was different as I did not like traditional sports like other boys, who played football all day long.\xa0', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'Growing up in a Christian culture meant toxic heteronormativity and excessive order. In my teenage years, I had no interest in women and could not relate to what my teacher said in biology classes.\xa0', 'There was no one to confide in, and I couldn’t be open in such a religious society either.\xa0', 'In hindsight, what felt like a happy childhood for me was, in fact, a façade masking a private despair, a stolen life, a happiness that never existed.\xa0', 'Being less than honest about a core part of me meant acting every single day year after year, and that is no way to live. So, social justice became my escape and my attempt to repair damages and make peace with my situation. It is something I’m very passionate about.\xa0', 'Eight years ago, I started campaigning for refugee rights in Nigeria.', 'Social media gave me a new power to talk about forbidden topics and I fought tirelessly for causes close to my heart on X (formerly known as Twitter). Looking at my journey, it just makes sense why I have this fire for positive change.\xa0', 'But in 2019, I realised it was time to speak out against the injustices of LGBTQ+ people in my home country, too.', 'I felt a sense of duty to myself – if I was to live my life moving forward, I had to be my most honest and authentic. I wanted to start living life on my own terms and make peace with my conflicting identities fighting to be honoured.', 'So, along with eight other people, I decided to organise the first ever Pride event in Nigeria.', 'Garnering the strength and courage of LGBTQ+ icons who came before my generation such as Bayard Rustin, Bisi Alimi and Lady Phyll, and being lucky enough to know a few in my generation through social media, we organised a series of protests in 15 monumental locations across the country – including Abuja and the megacity of Lagos.\xa0', 'Among us, there was a sense of fear, anger, sadness, passion, courage, laughter, pain and above all love.', 'However, in the lead-up, my eight allies pulled out of the protests because of valid personal reasons: danger to their safety and the impact on families and friends.\xa0', 'Still, my mind was made to come out so it was decided that this event would be a ‘solo Pride’. I would be the willing face of this LGBTQ+ protest, while the others would be involved and support from behind the scenes.', 'The night before the first day was a sleepless, peculiar night. My heart was racing and it felt like the end of a journey to freedom (or so I thought).\xa0', 'I chose my Pride Dr Martens, Pride clothes and my Pride Swatch – for every protest, my outfits had bold messages. And that was the confidence I needed; nothing else mattered when I wore those.\xa0', 'There were no placards as I was the placard. My Dr Martens and clothing did all the talking, alongside the three Pride flags: LGBTQ, Bisexual and Trans.', 'My Pride flags and apparel drew so much attention from passers-by as well as the authorities. On the days of the protests, I feel like I died and was reborn many times from being both petrified and empowered.\xa0', 'It seemed like I stood alone but had the support and power of all my allies and LGBTQ+ icons both living and dead.', 'We were there to protest different issues affecting the LGBTQ+ community in Nigeria – particularly highlighting the dangers of the Same Sex Marriage Prohibition Act (SSMPA) and calling for the urgent need for repeal.\xa0', 'This law, passed in 2014, prohibits same-sex marriage and ruthlessly punishes LGBTQ+ people in Nigeria. In addition to prohibiting same-sex marriage, the law legitimised oppression and was used by authorities to justify persecution.\xa0', 'Citizens can also carry out ‘jungle justice’ without repercussions; lynching and murder of LGBTQ+ people is a common occurrence. The protest aimed to get the draconian law repealed, educate and humanise my community’s experience.', 'Our Pride event culminated in a month-long protest at the National Assembly in Abuja, where the draconian law had been officially enacted five years prior.\xa0', 'We protested four times a week and surprisingly, members of the public were mostly supportive.', 'Every day was not without its challenges though, and we constantly felt the threat of being lynched – especially in Lagos, where it nearly did happen before my allies managed to pacify the situation.', 'At the end of it all, I was very proud to have been part of such a movement for social change. However, the fallout was serious and our group discovered that we’d become ‘persons of interest’.', 'We had made it into the Senate building to protest when sympathetic people at the National Assembly warned us that we needed to go into hiding. We had been seen on CCTV and it was known that we were there to protest for LGBTQ+ rights.\xa0', 'For standing up for what was right, I faced persecution from both the Nigerian authorities and religious bodies. My home then called me, saying that the police were asking strange questions about my life and activities.\xa0', 'Within days, it was unsafe for me to stay in my own country, so I had to flee my home to seek safety. There was no time to say goodbye.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'I could have gone to the USA or Canada, but the UK was familiar to me as I had visited before, and since time was against me, I did not have the luxury of renewing or processing visas.', 'I’d thought all my worries were behind me as soon as I got on the flight to Britain.', 'I arrived in the UK on 5 November 2019 and upon my arrival at the airport, I spoke to the UK authorities and told them that I was here because my life was in danger. After a painful 11-hour wait, they told me that I was to be thrown into an immigration detention centre.\xa0', 'I was anxious, yet numb. The silver lining was safely escaping being hunted and the toxic situation I’d been in.\xa0', 'In detention, there was no protection or safeguarding. I am not ready to share the details of hostility and mistreatment that I experienced there but what happened to me is a far cry from being an isolated case.', 'It haunts me to know that others have experienced the same – many friends of mine who have gone through similar ordeals in detention are simply too scared to speak out.', 'After being detained, I was placed somewhere that did not have people like me in mind.\xa0']"
48,"['‘I’ve always been the only Black person in my family, in my street, in my school,’ says Remi.', 'She is one of tens of thousands Nigerian children who were privately fostered by white families in the four decades since 1955, in a controversial practice known as ‘farming’.', 'The placements left a generation of children bereft of community and confused about their identity, with many of them still grappling with residual trauma still today.', 'Seal, Kris Akabussi, Florence Olajide, Gina Yashere, Nelson Abbey, Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje, John Fashanu and Justin Fashanu were all privately fostered, and many of those that lived through this contentious unofficial policy have had to live with its impact for decades.', 'The phenomenon is heavily undocumented; a secret that Britain has buried and failed to deal with. But Remi is now telling her story as part of a new film, White Nanny Black Child, which explores the story of unregulated fostering of Black babies and children into white families across the UK.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Remi’s challenging childhood was spent being passed to and fro between foster carers and her biological parents. Her story is one of fear, insecurity and lack of agency. Taken in by a British family at six weeks old, her formative years were difficult and disjointed.', 'She recalls her foster mother having an argument with her biological parents about who would pay for the upkeep, and she was terrified she’d be taken away. She remembers screaming and crying; ‘I just knew that I was being taken away from my mummy’, before being placed with another foster family, who didn’t know how to look after her.', 'Remi adds that she was ‘unhappy all the time’ before being taken to live with her biological family in Nigeria as a teen, where, miserable, she completely shut down. A year later, her parents moved her back in with her original foster family.', 'Nine Nigerian-born people who were taken in by white families have told their stories as part of the documentary. Their experiences vary wildly; many were loved, some neglected and others abused. But however well they were treated in the home, they all shared a feeling of loss and confusion or faced racism, isolation and discrimination in public.', 'The film, directed by Andy Mundy Castle, explores how these adults have been affected, taking it in turns to explore their past with the help of professional therapy.', 'It was a tough time for Black children growing up in postwar Britain. Landlords would post signs: ‘No coloured, no dogs, no Irish.’ Racial slurs were shouted in the streets and Enoch Powell made his infamous ‘rivers of blood’ speech, decrying immigration. Nigerian families, who had come to the UK on the promise of work and education, found a cold, grey and unwelcoming land. ', 'More than 70,000 West African children were fostered unofficially by white British families between 1955 and 1995 as their parents studied and worked to give their children a better life. ', 'Families looking for help would post in publications like Nursery World, sometimes with pictures or captions. One listing from 1974 read: ‘Pretty baby girl needs a new home.’ ', 'Sixty years on, these babies now grown are telling their stories. One of them, Ade, tells metro.co.uk that his early experiences affected him for the rest of his life.', 'He was taken on by a nanny at two months old while his mother – with no family nearby to help – studied to be a midwife. His parents spotted an advert in a New Cross newsagent, posted by a white woman called Pat. ', 'Desperate for childcare after Ade’s first placement went awry (that nanny used alcohol to get baby Ade to sleep) they agreed a price and Ade was sent to live with her by the seaside. Pat became ‘Hastings Mum’ and every weekend his parents would visit, or he would see his ‘London Mum and Dad’. ', 'In general, he had a good experience of the fostering process. But Ade spent the majority of his adult life moving between Britain, Nigeria and America as he struggled to find a place to call home.', 'Ade has made peace with the process after talking it through with his dad, who has since passed away. But he says: ‘I always felt like I didn’t know where I belonged. Even the love and connection with my mother wasn’t as strong. I wanted and craved affection. The back-and-forth experience left me with the struggle of – was I Nigerian enough? I felt like I didn’t fit in. There was a sense of displacement, I couldn’t explain it but I didn’t feel grounded anywhere.’', 'Before his father’s death, Ade came to understand his parents’ decision, adding: ‘During that time, it was just what people did. They came over here for a better life. The UK gave an impression that there was a connection with Nigeria. And when they got here, they had to work and there was nobody to watch their child. ', '‘So even if they weren’t always happy with it, it was the choice they needed to make to take care of me and make the money. It was part of the culture. Coming back from Hastings, my dad used to ask my mum – are we doing the right thing? It was hard for them. I don’t fault them or judge them.’', 'This nuance was important to director Andy Mundy-Castle, who believes the story has largely gone unreported because, really, there’s no one to hold to account.', 'He explains: ‘Both the families that took children in and the families handing over their children knew that something wasn’t quite right because this was being done behind closed doors. It wasn’t vetted. It wasn’t authorised and it wasn’t regulated by any local authorities or councils.’', 'But he wanted to bring this story to the light now as part of a wider conversation about migration and to broaden understanding around hardships people have to overcome when making an often treacherous journey to Britain', 'He says: ‘‘There are many nuances to this story and many sides to this story that affect all of us. It doesn’t just affect the people that were at the end of bad treatment. There were young, white British kids who would have, regardless of colour or race or ethnicity, treated this child that was brought into their family as a brother or sister. Now, if that child is suddenly stripped away, they still have to deal with the remnants of that.’', 'Up Next', 'Children such as Gloria who was told at the age of 16 she would be taken to Nigeria.', 'Like Ade, Gloria was fostered at just two months old when her 27-year-old Nigerian mother trained to be a cardiographer in Britain. She grew up feeling lonely and isolated, ‘sad in the playground’ and ‘culturally alone’.', '‘You don’t actually fit in anywhere… It’s like you’re just some sort of… embarrassment’, she tells the documentary, which shows her pulling her adoption documents from a cupboard full of papers. ', 'Heartbreakingly, they read: ‘Since the placement of the child, [Gloria’s biological mother] has taken no interest in her, and has only visited on one occasion, and then on the insistence of the applicant who were at the time the infant’s foster parents.’', 'Gloria, who was eventually adopted by a family in Margate, was scarred by her formative years and skin, hair and figure, so different from her white peers, left her self-conscious and unhappy. When she did finally move to Nigeria, the language barrier was too great and she was derided for the way she spoke and what she wore. It was a ‘scary’ time, she remembers.', 'Gloria’s feelings of confusion, isolation and grief are shared by the eight other interviewees to different degrees. They talk of rejection, abandonment, self loathing and generational trauma. Even when secure in their home, they felt unsafe outside, with one, Richard talking of being chased out of town as a 12-year-old by a gang of racist adult hooligans.', 'Richard tells the film: ‘When I walk out of that house: [I was told] “Why don’t you go back to Africa you little Black this, you Black that.” So then I used to go home and tell my people, they’re like “We love you though, we don’t see you as being Black, you’re our son”.’', 'Private fostering continued into the early 2000s but it slowly came to an end after more stringent measures on safeguarding were implemented by law. For some, the changes came too late, like Yewande, whose story is the most harrowing of all. She tries to make sense of her parents’ decision to leave her in the care of an unknown family: ‘This is England. This is the home country. Everything that shone like gold was here. They trusted that things would be better. They trusted that white is right.’', 'But Yewande was beaten, tortured and sexually abused at the age of four when placed with a family in Leicester: ‘The only memories I really have of that place is being living in fear, really. I remember one time being beaten so bad that I pissed myself on the lino floor, and I was made to lick it up.', '‘I remember them putting a cigarette out on my face. I remember sexual violation… I just remember darkness. Just dark the whole time, dark.’ Her memories of that time are sparse, but she says social services stepped in and she was taken to a children’s home, which she horrifyingly describes as a “paedophile ring”.', 'Yewande adds: ‘So, I grew up really feeling abandoned. I remember going into a phone box, picking up the phone and saying ‘Mummy, I promise I’ll be good, please, I promise, we’ll both be good, please, please, come and get us, please come and get us’.', 'It is a distressing and powerful watch. The other participants, appalled for Yewande, envelop her as a group and she sobs and howls into their embrace. It’s a poignant scene and a reminder that while the bonds of community can be disrupted for a time, they can never be truly broken.', 'White Nanny Black Child is available to stream on Channel 5.']"
49,[]
50,"['Nigel Farage is the UK’s most controversial politician of the 21st century, and now he is set to entertain the masses by eating kangaroo balls and sticking his head into a bowl of creepy-crawlies on I’m A Celebrity… Get Me Out Of Here. ', 'The ITV show, hosted by Ant McPartlin\xa0and\xa0Declan Donnelly, is reportedly paying the former UKIP leader and staunch Brexiteer a record-breaking £1.5million for entering the jungle alongside the likes of Sam Thompson, Jamie Lynn Spears, and Josie Gibson. ', 'Farage will be making his first appearance in khaki tomorrow evening (November 19), but his journey into the jungle is already controversial. ', 'Celebrities and fans alike took to social media to slam the broadcaster’s decision to add a man to their star-studded lineup who has hit the headlines time and time again over his 30-year career for remarks deemed racist and misogynistic. ', 'One took to X, formerly Twitter, and said: ‘Absolutely sickened by the decision to put Farage in #ImACeleb. This isn’t “bants”, that man has incited so much hatred, racism and division in our country. I am physically disgusted.’ ', ' Wake up to find news on your TV shows in your inbox every morning with Metro’s TV Newsletter.', 'Sign up to our newsletter and then select your show in the link we’ll send you so we can get TV news tailored to you.', 'It’s well known, then, that Farage is a controversial figure. But let’s take a dive into his most unbelievable moments, just to refresh your memory before you start to feel too sorry for him nibbling on scraps in the jungle. ', 'Over the years, Farage has certainly been accused of racism in his various remarks on immigration as UKIP leader and ‘Mr Brexit’. ', 'In 2013, Farage said he supported Muslin immigrants who ‘integrate’ into UK society but – quoting former Australian Prime Minister John Howard – not those who are ‘coming here to take us over’.', 'A year later, in a 2014 interview on LBC, Farage\xa0said he felt ‘uncomfortable’\xa0when he heard people speaking in other languages on London transport. ', 'When LBC radio presenter James O’Brien followed that by asking why he objects to Romanian migrants but not Germans – like his wife – Farage retorted: ‘You know the difference.’', 'Farage also suggested he would be concerned living next to a house of Romanians. ', 'That same year, Farage also blamed immigrants when he was over two hours late for an event, claiming they were clogging up the M4. ', '‘That has nothing to do with professionalism,’ he said of his tardiness. ‘What is does have to do with is a country in which the population is going through the roof, chiefly because of open-door immigration, and the fact the M4 is not as navigable as it used to be.’ ', 'In October 2014, Farage called for migrants who have tested positive for HIV not to be allowed into the UK. ', 'Two months later, he defended a UKIP candidate for using the word ‘ch**ky’ to describe a Chinese person. ', '‘If you and your mates were going out for a Chinese, what do you say you’re going for?’ he asked.', 'Farage’s 2016 anti-immigration poster – which suggested the UK was at ‘breaking point’ due to migrants – was branded ‘vile’ by chancellor of the time George Osbourne, who said it ‘echoed’ Nazi propaganda. ', 'On his political idols, Farage previously said in 2014: ‘As an operator, but not as a human being, I would say Putin. The way he played the whole Syria thing. Brilliant.’ ', 'Since Putin’s invasion of Ukraine, Farage somewhat backtracked on his previous comments of admiration for the Russian dictator, in saying that Putin is not being ‘logical’ in the invasion. ', '‘Vladimir Putin is a nationalist Russian. He wants to get back – at least I thought he wanted to get back – the Russian-speaking areas [of Ukraine] into his country,’ he said. ', '‘Those provinces in Ukraine, well, they are Russian-speaking… I always thought we were dealing with someone very logical, but now I don’t think he is.’ ', 'He dubbed the invasion ‘abhorrent’ but also, calling it ‘predictable’, blamed Putin’s atrocities on the EU and NATO provoking him. ', 'Farage has long voiced his support for Donald Trump, and was even the first British politician to meet the ex-President after his 2016 victory. ', 'In the run-up to the US presidential elections of 2016, Farage said that if he could,\xa0he would vote for Donald Trump. ', 'He later said in an interview that he\xa0‘couldn’t be happier’\xa0for Trump, while describing Barack Obama as a ‘loathsome individual’ and ‘creature’. ', 'If that wasn’t enough of a stan, Farage declared the orange-hued Republican should win the Nobel Peace Prize.', 'Farage also praised Trump for ‘dominating’ Hillary Clinton like a ‘silverback gorilla’. ', 'This is your timely reminder that Trump once said – of being a famous man – that you can just ‘grab’ women ‘by the pu**y’ and ‘they let you do it’.', 'Trump has been accused of sexual assault by dozens of women. ', 'Farage later defended Trump’s ‘grab ’em by the pu**y’ comment, saying that ‘men say dreadful things sometimes’. ', 'He added: ‘If all of us were caught out on what we’ve said on a night out after a drink, none of us would be here.’', 'In 2014 – perhaps Farage’s most vocal year, it seems – the UKIP leader said breastfeeding women should ‘sit in the corner’. ', 'He also suggested that working mothers were ‘worth less’ than men, while explaining the gender pay gap. ', '‘If a woman with a client base has a child and takes two or three years off work, she is worth far less to the employer\xa0when she comes back than when she goes away because her client base cannot\xa0be stuck rigidly to her,’ he said. ', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'On his own promiscuity – ew – Farage added: ‘Maybe it’s because I’ve got so many women pregnant\xa0over\xa0the\xa0years\xa0that I have a different view [of maternity\xa0leave].’', 'When Britain left the EU in 2016, Farage boasted that the campaign had been won\xa0‘without a bullet being fired’ just a week after Labour MP Jo Cox was fatally shot.', 'Perhaps one of Farage’s most famous moments came when his two-seater campaign plane crashed after his ‘Vote UKIP’ banner became entangled, causing the aircraft to nosedive on election day 2010. ', 'Farage later admitted he thought he was going to die in the crash, from which he emerged with a fractured neck vertebrae, and broken ribs. ', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', 'Nail the Western style come festival season with this Free People-inspired jacket', ""'Extremely good' Morrisons wines under £13 you need to try this summer"", '‘Like sleeping on a cloud’ hail shoppers as £12 mattress protector scores glowing reviews', 'Also rather memorably, Farage has never actually succeeded in becoming a sitting MP after many failed attempts. ', 'Got a story?']"
51,"[""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'I’m A Celebrity’s Nella Rose challenged the jungle’s most controversial campmate Nigel Farage over his anti-immigration stance. ', 'The former politician and UKIP leader’s inclusion in the ITV reality show has sparked huge backlash, with a campaign launched to have him booted from the series\xa0over his divisive politics.', 'Presenters Ant McPartlin\xa0and\xa0Declan Donnelly made a savage dig about Farage, 59, moments into the new series, while Josie Gibson also mocked his Brexit campaign. ', 'Now, YouTuber Nella, who has also locked horns with Fred Sirieix, has confronted the GB News host, over his right-wing immigration policies.', 'Farage was a key player in Brexit, including his party releasing an anti-immigrant poster that suggested that immigration was at ‘Breaking Point’ as part of the Leave campaign in 2016.', ' Wake up to find news on your TV shows in your inbox every morning with Metro’s TV Newsletter.', 'Sign up to our newsletter and then select your show in the link we’ll send you so we can get TV news tailored to you.', 'The Leave campaign won and Brexit was eventually passed (though Northern Ireland is still without a government over DUP complaints about the sea border), and on Sunday night Josie mocked Farage over his role in the campaign.', 'Asking Farage if he was anti-immigrant, the 26-year-old continued: ‘It must be [true]. Why don’t Black people like you?’ ', 'Farage claimed: ‘You’d be amazed, they do. If you came with me through south London, you’d be astonished.’ ', 'She later asked: ‘So everyone hates you for no reason? Not that everyone hates you, that was so bad. Sorry.’', 'He responded: ‘You can disagree with somebody, but to chuck around accusations the way they’ve been chucked around is grossly unfair.', '‘Anti-immigrant, right? No, no, all I’ve said is we cannot go on with the numbers coming to Britain that are coming.’', 'Nella continued: ‘I’m one of the numbers?”', 'Farage replied: ‘So that’s it then, should it be 5million a year, 10million… you don’t seem to understand.’', 'Tackling him head-on, Nella said: ‘Those immigrants that are coming in, I came in.’', 'Nella then asked Farage what was ‘so wrong’ about immigrants, pointing out that they are a ‘good thing’ and have contributed massively to British society.', 'Farage claimed: ‘Good thing, unless you want a GP appointment…’', 'Putting him in his place, she continued: ‘I’m stopping you getting a GP appointment? You’re not getting an appointment because the NHS is lacking funding. ', '‘I bet you anything if every single immigrant or from immigrant descent was to leave the UK, all your doctors, go… most of your doctors are Asian right? Most of your nurses are African women, right?', '‘You want us gone, that’s all I understood.’', 'While Farage protested, the pair eventually decided to ‘agree to disagree.’', 'Nella concluded that she ‘really liked’ Farage in the jungle and wanted to get to the bottom of why he was universally hated.', 'She added: ‘We don’t have to come to a common ground. You probably like a lot of things that I don’t like. And I probably like a lot of things that you don’t like…we can have these conversations.’', 'As well as viewers, celebrities have slammed Farage’s casting in I’m A Celebrity, with Lorraine Kelly saying on her chat show she ‘personally thinks it is wrong’ for him to be in the jungle.', '‘I think it’s very bizarre,’ she added and predicted – correctly –\xa0that he’d rule himself out\xa0of certain trials for health reasons.', 'So far, this season has suffered from a slump in viewing figures, with the opening episode pulling in an average of 7 million, compared to the 9.1 million who tuned in for the show’s launch last year.', 'Nella, meanwhile rowed with First Dates’ Fred when he said he could be her dad because of their ages, as he is 51 and she is 26 – but Nella, who\xa0lost both her mum and her dad\xa0at a young age, was massively hurt by the comment.', 'While he later profusely apologised, Nella was having none of it, telling him: ‘you’re not going to little girl me.’', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', 'Nail the Western style come festival season with this Free People-inspired jacket', ""'Extremely good' Morrisons wines under £13 you need to try this summer"", '‘Like sleeping on a cloud’ hail shoppers as £12 mattress protector scores glowing reviews', 'I’m A Celebrity continues tomorrow on ITV and ITVX at 9pm.', 'Got a story?']"
52,"['In today’s MetroTalk, a reader shares what they think to be the British view on white privilege and political correctness. Could it be that some of us find PC-ness challenging because it dares to prioritise the minority? ', 'Meanwhile, readers are also discussing: the ways the wealthy and the lets say: less well off, game the system, whether to keep monuments to barbaric philanthropists, immigration and their memories of a Labour government. ', 'And do you agree with the reader who says we should respect politicians as much as we respect scientists?', 'Share your thoughts in the comments. ', 'Bucknor (MetroTalk, Thu) misunderstands the argument regarding white privilege and political correctness.', 'Yes, Britain has definitely become more tolerant but it is not because of political correctness, it is despite it.', 'PC puts people’s noses out of joint and frustrates the tolerant majority, because it gives the overriding advantage to minority groups (of whatever kind) over the majority. This is blatantly seen as not right, either morally or democratically.', 'As for his comment on non-gender toilets somehow being a non-issue in constituting an encroachment on women’s safe spaces simply because disabled toilets are non-gender, he yet again demonstrates his ignorance.', 'Toilets are a private area and, when a disabled toilet is being used, it is only ever by one person and therefore automatically constitutes a safe space. The same cannot be said about a women’s toilet since it is occupied by multiple people.', 'His attitude is typical of those who believe that being ‘fair’ equates to giving up everyone else’s rights in favour of the minority. Fairness means giving everyone the same rights and opportunities, not just the majority or the minority, although sometimes this is difficult to translate into practical reality. Paul, London', 'Let us know what you think...', 'Start a text with VIEWS followed by your comment, name and where you live to 65700. Standard network charge applies. Or email mail@ukmetro.co.uk Helpline for Views, Rush-Hour Crush and Good Deed Feed: 020 3615 0600. ', 'Remember, you are more likely to be published if you provide your name and location with your']"
53,"['Rwanda could be given an additional £15,000,000 if they sign a treaty with the UK to accept migrants who arrive in Britain via small boats.', 'The money would be in addition to the already £140 million given to Rwanda’s government if they accept further asylum seekers arriving in the UK after crossing the English Channel.', 'Downing Street said any ‘potential cash boost’ would cover ‘additional costs’ associated with addressing the concerns raised by the Supreme Court when it ruled the plan was unlawful.', 'Home Secretary James Cleverly could fly out to Rwanda as early as tomorrow as emergency legislation could be tabled this week, according to The Sunday Times.', 'It comes as Prime Minister Rishi Sunak met Rwanda’s President Paul Kagame at the\xa0Cop28\xa0climate talks in Dubai.', 'Some reports speculate that the additional £15 million will be used to pay for extra personnel to improve and expand the Rwandan asylum processing system.', 'Mr Sunak said he was amid ‘finalising’ legislation designed to push through the Rwanda proposal and has set the target of deportation flights taking off by the spring.', 'The bid to send some asylum seekers on a one-way trip to the African nation was dealt a blow when the Supreme Court ruled it unlawful last month.', 'Mr Sunak’s attempt to save the policy involves the signing of a new treaty with Kigali and the introduction of emergency legislation allowing Parliament to deem the country safe, despite concerns raised by senior judges.', 'Following the judgment by the Supreme Court on November 15, Downing Street originally said\xa0a new small boats law would be published within days but the wait has gone on for weeks.', 'Migrants have continued to brave freezing December conditions to cross the Channel.', 'Almost\xa028,500 asylum seekers arrived to the UK in 2023 using the sea route, with the one-year anniversary of Mr Sunak’s stop the boats pledge approaching next month.', 'Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has dismissed the Rwanda policy as a ‘gimmick’ and accused the Tories of a ‘betrayal’ of their 2019 manifesto commitment to lower migration.', 'Sir Keir, who is on course to become the next prime minister according to opinion polls, said\xa0he would not shy away from discussing contentious issues such as immigration.', 'Last month, judges overturned a\xa0High Court\xa0ruling that previously said the east African nation could be considered a ‘safe third country’.', 'In the judgment, Sir Geoffrey Vos said there were ‘substantial grounds’ to think that asylum seekers faced ‘real risks’ of torture or inhuman treatment, or that their claims for asylum would not be properly determined in Rwanda.', 'Lord Burnett added the court reached its conclusion on the law and took ‘no view whatsoever’ about the political merits of the policy.']"
54,"['‘They’ve taken the ground from underneath my feet and destroyed my hope. I’m distraught. The repercussions on people’s lives is not human.’', 'That was the reaction from Raquel Roberts de Santos – a British mother-of-two who, for over four years, has tried to be reunited here in the UK with her Brazilian husband, Manoel, who is also the father of their two children.', 'Raquel met her husband almost 15 years ago when she was living in Brazil and they’ve been married for over eight years. ', 'After a series of dangerous events there, they decided that Raquel and the boys – now aged five and six – should return to Britain while Manoel and his 14-year-old daughter stayed in Brazil until they could be reunited safely in the UK.', 'Unfortunately, she’s one of the many people in the UK who just had their hopes dashed, with a loved one essentially being\xa0locked out of this country.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Earlier this week, the Government left families all over the UK devastated after it raised the minimum threshold for a family visa to £38,700 to ‘ensure people only bring dependants whom they can support financially’.', 'For those whom the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants (JCWI) and Reunite Families UK support, the distress is palpable – people across the country have found that their path to reunification has been destroyed in one fell swoop.', 'In 2012, the Government introduced a Minimum Income Requirement (MIR), which meant that a British spouse had to earn £18,600 in order to sponsor their partner to come to the UK – irrespective of whether they have children or not.', 'This was a level high enough to price-out thousands of people – particularly women, and even more particularly women with caring responsibilities. It was brought in as a way to lower net migration figures at any cost.', 'In recent months, the Government has come up with migration policy ideas that range from outlandish and unworkable to downright cruel, mostly targeting people who’ve had to flee their homes and seek sanctuary here – like the Rwanda plan ruled unlawful by the Supreme Court, but which the Government is still pursuing.', 'Now, with these latest proposals to come into effect from Spring next year, it’s families that are caught in the crosshairs.', 'People often do a double take when they hear about our country’s rules for families.\xa0', 'Essentially, they say this: if you happen to fall in love with someone from outside the UK, you’d better hope you’re in a stable, well-paying job – otherwise you face years of separation, or having to leave your home in the UK to be with them.', 'Thousands of people were already suffering because of this rule.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'The emotional impact of being told by your own government that you can’t live with the person you love because you don’t earn enough money is hard to quantify. We’ve worked with people – often families with children – who have been separated for years because of this.', 'For Raquel, being forced into single parenting makes every day an uphill challenge, with financial and parental pressures weighing heavily on her. For her sons, not having their dad here means missing out on an important part of their cultural heritage, education, and identity.', 'They’ve only seen him once since being separated and the impact on their mental health is\xa0 distressing. ', 'The oldest son now suffers from separation anxiety and the school believes he is grieving the absence of his daddy. As for the youngest, Raquel says it’s a ticking time bomb because she knows he’s holding back to protect her from hurting.\xa0', 'Across the country, children are growing up without one of their parents, for the simple reason that their family isn’t deemed wealthy enough by the state. Now, this price tag on love has shot up.', 'The average salary across the UK in 2023 was around £35,464. This means that most of us wouldn’t be able to navigate the Home Office’s cruel and complex rules to start a life with a loved one from outside the UK.', 'This means that only around 40% of UK full-time employees could afford to support a dependent.\xa0', 'These rules aren’t just aggressively classist and anti-family – they are, and always have been, explicitly racist and sexist, too.', 'The Home Office’s own assessment, written in 2012 before this rule was brought in, shows that the Government has known from the start that these rules would hurt people – but more specifically, that it would hurt some more than others.', 'It found that, for example, while white British men on average earned above £18,600, men from Pakistani and Bangladeshi backgrounds earned well below that amount. When combined, women of all backgrounds also earned far less than the amount needed to sponsor their partner.', 'This obvious discrimination – the fact that people of some genders and ethnicities are statistically far less able to live in the UK with the person of their choosing – was found in the assessment to be ‘proportionate’. In other words, we know these rules are racist and sexist, but we’ve decided it’s OK.', 'By more than doubling the threshold now, the Home Office is showing exactly who it’s happy to target in order to win votes when we go to the polls next year.', 'Something else is hidden in this approach: its capacity to undermine the mental health of the people – children in particular – who are going through the process at the moment.']"
55,"['‘I was 11 years old, walking home from school when I heard footsteps behind me and felt a sharp pain,’ says Saj Zafar. ', '‘I didn’t realise what had happened until I swung round and saw this girl pull the scissors out my shoulder.', '‘There were a few of them and they ran away, but there was blood everywhere.’', 'Saj had been bullied ever since she started school. Her family were the first immigrants to arrive in Yorkshire from Kashmir, and life wasn’t easy for the family.', '‘Both my parents were illiterate, uneducated and very poor,’ says Saj. ‘When I started school, I realised that I didn’t look like anyone else, didn’t speak like anyone and that led to other children bullying me.', '‘I always say that I learned to fight before I learned to write.’', 'As Saj grew older, she was constantly in detention and fell behind at school. ‘I was disruptive because of the bullying and I felt isolated.’', 'When she went to senior school at 11, the bullying escalated. She was kicked and punched on a daily basis. ‘I learned if I curled up in a ball they would do the least damage,’ she says.', 'It was a dark November night when Saj was stabbed in an alleyway. ‘At the time, I noticed that they’d made a hole in my donkey jacket and it was my pride and joy and I was more annoyed that they’d ruined my jacket,’ she says.', 'Saj was able to walk home but her shoulder started to seize up – she rang her friend and told her to bring tissues and talcum powder to try and stop the blood. ‘My parents were very strict, and I was terrified that they would tell me off, so my friend helped patch me up. I changed out of my uniform and did my best to clean myself up,’ she says.', 'That night her mother asked her to make dinner with her in the kitchen, but as she rolled out her first chappati, the wound burst open. “Behind me, my mother gasped and dropped a glass in shock. I had started to bleed through my dress, and she whisked me to hospital.', '‘The police were called but I wouldn’t tell them who had done it. Everything would have got a lot worse if I did.’', 'Heartbreakingly, life didn’t get better for Saj after the incident. By the time she reached 15 she had tried to take her own life and was rushed into hospital and later taken to see a psychiatrist. ', '‘I poured my heart out in the hope she would help me but instead she diagnosed me with having an “identity crisis”. My father sent me back to Pakistan with a one-way ticket where I spent two years, four months and fifteen days before I managed to negotiate a return to the UK.’', 'Her family wanted Saj to get married, and she promised her father she would do so if he allowed her to go to university. She started a degree in forensic psychology. ‘I got a job and saved some money and on the last day of university, I ran away to London,’ she says.', '‘I was scared of what would happen if my family found me – culturally there was a fear instilled into girls if you ever tried to leave you would get caught and you would be either deported or risk being killed and I didn’t fancy any of those two!’', 'After six weeks, she arranged a meeting with her father. She met her dad in Birmingham in a café and she could see that her uncles and cousins were waiting outside in the cars. She faced her dad and told him that she wasn’t prepared to return home under any circumstances.', '‘I could see that he was trying to understand why when he had provided for me and done the best me, I wasn’t conforming. But I told him I wanted my freedom and I wanted to live a life of my own choosing – to live independently, have a job and choose my own husband,’ she said.', '‘In that moment, my father knew I wasn’t going to change my mind and return with him. He pointed to my uncles and cousins waiting outside in the cars and said – you do realise, they expect me to bring you out of this café. ‘Is there a back door to this place? I suggest you find it and start running.’ And I did.’', 'Eventually, Saj was able to reconcile with her family on her terms. Over time her parents accepted and respected her decision and became part of her life. Saj says before his passing her father paid her the biggest compliment by telling her she was ‘his son’ .', 'Today, she works to empower other women to follow their dreams, whether they’re facing racism at work or school or challenges relating to familial or societal expectations. ', '‘My story resonates with many women of colour from similar backgrounds,’ she says. ‘By sharing my story, I hope to inspire, motivate women to be leaders in their own lives.’ ', 'As a leadership coach she’s created two organisations – LeadHERship Academy and Institute for Change – which both seek to drive change in gender equity. Through one-to-one or group coaching, plus public speaking events, she hopes to help women address the barriers to opportunities they’re facing and develop the capabilities to thrive. ', 'At the same time, she works with male leaders to create the change girls abroad really need – such as negotiating a deal with male leaders in Kashmir to stop them ‘selling’ their daughters as brides. ', 'Saj has pushed through those glass ceilings herself; she qualified in forensic psychology after graduating and later became one of the youngest Asian females to join the Prison Service when she worked as a prison governor.', 'She spent the next 20 years working in senior leadership roles, which included working with ministers and senior officials in central government.', '‘I was the only female of colour in those spaces,’ she says, ‘and my mission is to help organisations increase women like me into leadership roles.’', 'Now, she’s seen as a pioneer, trailblazer for the younger women coming up behind her.', 'At a recent wedding she said she was both humbled and encouraged when she was approached my some of her younger cousins and nieces who said that if it hadn’t been for her they wouldn’t have been able to pursue further education, work, find partners of their own choosing.', '‘One of them said to me ‘whenever you did something it immediately gave the rest of us hope that if Saj can, I can.’ By my father allowing me to live my own life, it inspired other fathers in our community to do the same. Whatever we do causes a ripple effect,’ she says.', 'How has she kept strong when dealing with such adversity? ‘I have become stronger by refusing to be kept down and always battling through no matter what the consequence. My sheer drive came from this inner belief that I was entitled to lead a life of my own choosing, I was entitled to have freedom and make my own life choices. This sheer determination to keep fighting led me to build resilience and thrive in chaos and crisis. ', '‘I have spent a lifetime in survival mode and following years of therapy and inner work, I am now beginning to learn to thrive. And now I have made it my mission to spend the rest of my life empowering women and girls to affect the change necessary so that they too can live a life of their own choosing and thrive.’', 'In a recent trip to Kashmir, Saj met some schoolgirls she’d been supporting through her work. ‘I was told by one of them that I was their “waseela”, which translated means “medium, solution, guide, saviour.” ‘', '‘Why do I do what I do?’ she asks. ‘I want to be the woman who was never there for me in my life.’']"
56,"['An Italian grandmother facing deportation after living in the UK for 42 years has learned she can stay following a Home Office U-turn.', 'Leonarda Zarcone, 74, was told she had missed a deadline to provide information for her settled status application and was ordered to leave the country.', 'The stunned grandmother then discovered she had not seen an email from the Home Office asking for further proof she had lived in the UK for at least five years because it had gone to her junk folder. ', 'She made a new application that was rejected and was left living in ‘daily fear’ of being deported.', 'Her family highlighted Ms Zarcone’s plight in the media and the Home Office eventually agreed to give her indefinite leave to live in the UK.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Ms Zarcone, who lives in Leicester with her husband Marcel, said: ‘I was an illegal immigrant and all because of an email which was sent to my junk folder.', '‘I am not great with computers. It made me cry to think I could be sent away from this country and my family because of this.’', 'Her son David Brunetto, 51, said the family was ‘relieved that common sense has finally prevailed but it should never have got to this point.’', '‘My mum has had sleepness nights about being arrested because technically she was an illegal immigrant.', '‘It shows just how precarious the system is if you can be kicked out of the country on the basis of an email being sent to spam.', '‘I really hope the Home Office will learn lessons from this. The way my mum was treated was appalling.’', 'Ms Zarcone was born in Italy and moved to the UK as a child before living in France where she was given French citizenship.', 'She and Marcel moved to the UK in 1981 and settled in Leicester where they ran a traditional British fish and chip shop and raised their three children.', 'After Britain officially left the EU in 2020 following Brexit, Mr Brunetto made the application for settled status on behalf of his parents as well as for himself.', 'He said that on the form it gave two ways the Home Office could contact the applicant, by phone or by email.', '‘[My mum] had never used an email before I set one up for her for the application and she is cautious about talking to people on the phone in case it’s a scam.', '‘If there had been an option for a letter then my mum would have opted for that and this would never have happened.’', 'The rest of Ms Zarcone’s family were granted settled status so she assumed she had been too.', 'She said she got the shock of her life when she opened the letter ordering her to leave the UK.', '‘All my family and my roots are here’, she added. ‘It’s really frightening. I have nowhere to go.', '‘My mum and dad moved to England and are buried here. My life is here.', '‘I moved to this country 42 years ago with my husband. We raised our three children here and ran a business together here.', '‘I have paid National Insurance, taxes and lived an honest life.', '‘My family have made their lives here and my youngest daughter was born in the UK. We even support Leicester City football team, this is our home.’', 'Mr Brunetto added: ‘My mum’s records prove that she has been living here for decades.', '‘She’s received a state pension for seven years so clearly she’s lived here continually and she’s paid into the system. She’s paid her taxes.', '‘She’s paying council tax. There’s lots of proof.’', 'The Home Office emailed Mr Brunetto on Friday confirming his mother had been granted Indefinite Leave to Remain.', 'The letter said: ‘I am pleased to inform you that your application under the EU Settlement Scheme has been successful.’', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: ‘All EU Settlement Scheme applications are carefully considered on their individual merits, on the basis of the evidence provided and in accordance with the immigration rules.', '‘A wide range of support remains available for applicants, including vulnerable people.', '‘This includes support through a Grant Funded Network of third party organisations dedicated to assisting vulnerable people with their applications.’']"
58,"['It’s 1975, I’m seven years old and sitting in a classroom at Wood End Park Junior School in Hayes, on the edge of West London.', 'Like all children I’m desperate to fit in, desperate to make friends. But there’s a catch.', 'I’m a recently arrived immigrant, from West Bengal in India and I’m the only brown skinned child in the class.', 'My surname, Banerjee (pronounced ban-er-jee), marks me out as foreign, which is only made worse by the fact that no-one seems to be able to pronounce it.', 'As my teacher, let’s call her Mrs Jones, begins reading from the register, I find myself starting to shift in my seat.', 'She effortlessly glides past the Smiths, Cooks and Allens and then, she gets to my name…', '‘Ban-jo? Ban-jaar? B’naar Jaar?’ she carelessly mangles the three easy syllables, and everyone laughs.', 'I feel inferior, ridiculous compared to my English classmates. And this is a scene that has repeated itself all my life.', 'As Asians we’re used to having our names mocked and mispronounced, sometimes causing us a lifetime of discomfort.', 'My parents, as newly-arrived immigrants in the sixties, suffered chronic mispronunciations of their names.', 'In my mother’s case she is called Tripti – pronounced ‘Thrip-Thee’ – which is a beautiful Bengali name, said with a ‘th’ sound. But I’ve never heard anyone English say it properly.', 'Then my father – whose real name is Balaji, a highly revered name for the Hindu god Vishnu – who at the time was desperate to find work and felt like he was in no position to insist that his name was pronounced correctly, was forced to shorten it to Bala. A name that means nothing.', 'In fact, nearly everyone in my extended Indian family has had to adapt or change their first name because of constant mispronunciation.', 'My cousin had to abandon her beautiful Bengali name, Mousumi (pronounced ‘Mow-shoom-ee’), as it was butchered endlessly. She now goes by ‘Mo’, a generic name, which contains none of the meaning and beauty of the original.', 'Even my own first name, Sheela, from the English name ‘Sheila’, was my family’s attempt to save me from the difficulties they’d had with their own names. But unfortunately, it didn’t save me from the jokes about my Bengali surname as I went through school.', 'It’s why I didn’t think to insist that the teacher make the tiniest effort to get my name right. Instead, I simply absorbed the message that my name was the problem, rather than the ignorance of those who couldn’t be bothered to say it properly.', 'I remember being called ‘banana-ji’, ‘banter-jiI’, ‘baintree’ or some other lazy iteration of my surname.', 'This, of course, only added to the stigma I already carried around with me as an immigrant child in the seventies and eighties.', 'I was routinely abused on the streets of Hayes where I lived. I often got called the P-word and saw National Front graffiti everywhere. This wasn’t a time to be proud of my Indian surname.', 'However, if you want to get technical, it’s not even my actual surname.', 'I’ve since discovered that my name has an even longer history, which dates back to the early days of the Empire.', 'Our original name was Bandyopadhyay (pronounced Bon-dtho-padth-ayah), which the colonial British couldn’t be bothered to pronounce properly. So they changed it to Banerjee.', 'This isn’t a unique case though. They did the same to Chattopadhyay (Chott-tow-padth-ayah), which became Chatterjee, and to Mukhopadhyay (Moo-kkho-padth-ayah), which became Mukherjee.', 'It was after Independence that the West Bengal government insisted all students who were Banerjees, Chatterjees, Mukherjees use the original form of their name (ie Bandyopadhyay) in their school examinations, as the ‘jee’ form was seen by many as a symbol of colonial oppression.']"
59,"['It would be a 27-minute walk, but I had already walked 6,000 steps that day and I hadn’t eaten anything in six hours, so what if I felt light-headed? Breakfast was an indulgent cheese omelette and I had leftover rice and pulses waiting for me at home for dinner.\xa0', '‘Could I treat myself to sushi?’ I bargained with myself. It was the end of the day, so it’d only be around £5. ‘No, I’ll just get the bus’.', 'I grew up in a culture of home cooked meals, cheap cab fares, rickshaws that would never cost more than the equivalent of 40p, easy domestic help, a car – not to mention the emotional support of family members’ shoulders to cry on. ', 'I must acknowledge my class privilege that allowed me these luxuries – it’s something I’m really grateful for.', 'In the background to this though, the country’s been grappling with a difficult political environment. ', 'Personally, I felt powerless to do anything about it and this severely impacted my mental health. It felt like we were stuck in a bog with no stable footing. This is one of the major reasons why I decided to move to the UK in September last year.', 'I applied to SOAS University of London for its one-year Gender and Law master’s programme, which I was overjoyed to be accepted into. I didn’t know anyone in the UK – apart from a few school and family friends – so the idea of packing up my entire life and leaving my comfortable home was scary.', 'Before I’d even flown over, my family and I budgeted for my first year in London.\xa0', 'My parents took out a loan of £23,400, which is the tuition fee for the master’s programme. Then I personally contributed three years’ worth of savings, which I had from working as a writer and programme manager for an NGO.', 'On top of this, my parents sold a piece of land that funded the rest of the expenses – including the visa (£363), health surcharge (£470), accommodation (£8,640), travel (£2,000), as well as food, transportation and miscellaneous spending costs (£6,000).', 'In total, that’s £40,873. But in Indian currency? That’s over 4million rupees. For perspective, that’s enough to buy a three-bedroom apartment in my city.', 'Once I arrived in London in September, I spent an endless amount of time making financial decisions. Spending every pound gave me anxiety and the determination to maximise my experience on a budget soon became a headache.', 'I had to think before buying any meal, drink or choosing a mode of transport. And I felt as if every penny that I spent that belonged to my family – and not to me – was a drain to their resources.', 'Maybe a little bit of South Asian elder daughter generational trauma had also kicked in here. I just couldn’t be OK with the idea of spending money on myself.', 'Soon enough, I came to know the full London experience – strike days that turned into weeks, fluctuating Tube prices and onions that are more expensive than an entire Indian meal. ', 'On top of that, there’s the cost-of-living crisis – and I can’t even work to earn some money on the side while I study because of how intense the master’s programme is.\xa0', 'Unfortunately, this financial strain has impacted my social life too.', 'When I had barely been in London for a month, I was invited to an event by one of my new university friends, which cost £30. For the first time in my life, I told someone: ‘I am sorry but I cannot make it because this is not something I can afford right now.’', 'A week later, she told me that I clearly didn’t care enough about her or her event because I did not show up ‘on the pretence of not having money’. I had never been made to feel so small and it hurt to be humiliated like that.', 'Maybe for her, £30 wasn’t a big deal but it was one week’s worth of groceries for me. I didn’t understand the entitlement and the ignorance when it came to understanding how the cost of living crisis and immigration impacts everyone differently.', 'Now – after nine months of being in the UK, I am almost done with my course and am starting my journey to look for jobs, but I am so worried all the time.', 'In my mind, if I don’t find a good job here, I will never be able to pay back my parents for the help they gave me to move halfway across the world.\xa0', 'I hope – despite the odds and financial pressures stacked against me – that I am able to carve out a space and create a name for myself here.', 'My advice for international students moving to the UK would be to prepare for it financially a couple of years in advance. This way, you will be more ready to deal with the monetary responsibility that will fall on your shoulders.', 'The UK is wonderful – and there is so much you can do that won’t cost you a lot, like free museums.', 'For me, the opportunity to build a better life – and a much safer one – for myself makes the journey worth it.\xa0', 'Originally published in May 2023']"
60,"['Kelly Osbourne has finally spoken out about her shocking remarks about ‘kicking Latinos out’ of America admitting it was the ‘worst thing she’s ever done.’', 'The TV personality, and daughter of Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne, sparked controversy in 2015 when she discussed former President Donald Trump and his vile views of Mexican immigrants on American daytime TV show The View.', 'Discussing his remarks, Osbourne said to host Rosie Perez: ‘If you kick every Latino out of this country, then who is going to be cleaning your toilet, Donald Trump?’', 'Her comments caused a huge amount of backlash online, which the former Osbournes star later said was a ‘poor choice of words,’ but added ‘I will not apologise for being racist as I am NOT.’', 'The View clip has resurfaced on TikTok with users adding their own ridiculous takes on stereotypes, leading Osbourne to sit down with Rolling Stone to discuss ‘the most cringe moment of her entire life.’', '‘It hurt a lot of people. That to me, by far, makes it the worst thing I’ve ever done,’ she told the publication.', '‘I realized that I’m not great on live TV and that words are so powerful. And to be labeled as something you’re not is really difficult. But it happened. There’s nothing I can do.’', 'The rise of the clip on social media has made Osbourne assess who she was in 2015, describing herself as a ‘self-righteous little c**t’ and that she ‘hates’ this version of herself.', '‘I hate it so much because I look at it and I’m like, “You think you know everything and you know nothing. Nobody wants to hear [your] opinion on this”,’ she continued.', '‘Nobody wants to hear from a white person about race. No one. They don’t.’ ', 'She said that she received ‘death threats’ during the initial backlash and that now she’s ‘definitely not the person she was before that incident.’', 'Osbourne clarified what she meant by her comment that ‘came out so wrong’, saying: ‘This whole country is built on immigrants, and if you stop people from coming into this country who do the jobs that make this country exist and thrive and flourish, who’s going to do all the jobs that you don’t want to do yourself?’', 'Got a story?']"
61,"['A 28-year-old man has been charged with the rape of a woman at a hospital in Merseyside.', 'Sidharth Nair, of Jason Street, Everton, Liverpool, has also been charged with two counts of sexual assault.', 'The victim reported that she had been raped by a man at Whiston Hospital on Tuesday evening.', 'She is being supported by specialist officers and police say enquiries into the case are still ongoing.', 'Mr Nair appeared at Wirral Magistrates’ Court today.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'He has been remanded in custody and will appear at Liverpool Crown Court on February 29.', 'Detective chief inspector Allison Woods, of Merseyside Police, said: ‘We understand how shocking incidents of this nature are and I want the public to be reassured it will be thoroughly investigated. ', '‘The woman is being supported by specially trained officers and our enquiries remain ongoing.’']"
62,"['Rushing down the office corridor, I breathed a sigh of relief when I saw a line manager.', 'It was early in my career. I was a young journalist working at a global news channel who, a few hours earlier, had been assigned her first huge story.', 'My day had been a blur of filming and editing, now all I needed was a senior to approve the final cut and I’d get to see it go out live on the evening news.', 'But with 15 minutes to spare I was panicking. Which is why seeing the edit room manager came as such a relief.', '‘When’s it for?’ He asked. ', '‘Tonight,’ I replied quickly. And then it happened….', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'He huffed and rolled his eyes at me.', 'I didn’t know it then but, this was the first time I’d been the victim of a microaggression.', 'By definition, microaggressions are brief comments or actions that subtly and often unconsciously or unintentionally express a prejudiced attitude toward a member of a marginalised group (such as a racial minority).', 'These happen, sadly, all the time but are rarely addressed, which is why I welcomed the news that UK civil servants have now been put on courses to teach them that eye-rolling and looking at your phone while talking to someone could be considered discriminatory microaggressions.\xa0', 'Of course, the dismissive response was predictable.\xa0', 'Sir Jacob Rees-Mogg even thought it’d be appropriate to make light of the situation, saying his eyes were ‘rolling at the news’.\xa0', 'Meanwhile chief executive of the TaxPayers’ Alliance, John O’Connell, deemed it ‘another opportunity for civil servants to doss about on [the taxpayers] dime’.', 'But to me, this just proves how much education is needed.', 'Because as a white male, Rees-Mogg is unlikely to be affected by microaggressions. But as the child of East Asian immigrants, I now know I fit into the category that will be.', 'I wouldn’t wish it on my worst enemy.', 'Having let out his first huff and eye roll, my manager’s exasperation and anger quickly built.', '‘Why do they put people like you in charge? Never come in here again.’ Spat the manager.', 'Unsure what to say or do I walked away from him and luckily bumped into a senior producer.', 'He skimmed and approved my story but any pride I might have felt about completing such a huge task in my role was tainted.', 'As I walked back to my desk, my boss stopped me and whisked me into another hallway where I promptly burst into tears.', 'She then marched over to the edit manager. ‘Don’t you ever talk to one of my team like that again.’ She shouted, making sure everyone in the office heard.\xa0', 'I was constantly denied requests to be assigned stories that didn’t involve my Asian-ness', 'I was so thankful she had my back, but she also taught me an important lesson. That his eye-roll and huff was a type of microaggression and one I’d likely encounter again.', 'She taught me that people would roll their eyes at something she’d said, only to agree with the same statement coming out of a male colleague’s mouth.', 'Then she asked me to count the number of Black and brown colleagues we had. Not many. She asked me how many were in management. One.\xa0', '‘This is what you’re up against. You can be average, but if you went to the right school, you’ll get a leg up. We need to look out for each other,’ she said.', 'I quickly learned why she always wore a trouser suit, cut her hair short and used a gender-ambiguous nickname.', 'I adopted her ‘office laugh’, a low, hearty bellow and learned to stand with my legs apart.\xa0', 'Becoming masculine was something I figured I needed to do to be taken seriously. After all, it worked for her.', 'Of course, it didn’t shield us from unwanted and untoward behaviour, though.\xa0', 'Gradually, she gave me more responsibilities and we became friends over the four years we worked together. But the microaggressions in the office didn’t cease; it was happening all the time.', 'One senior producer used to approach women asking if they wanted his signature back-rub.', 'A lesbian colleague was continually referred to as ‘one of the lads’.', 'But after my boss left, it felt like the microaggressions worsened.', 'One time, I asked other managers if I could try on-screen work. They rolled their eyes and told me I didn’t have the ‘right look’.', 'Another time, I had a manager bring over something written in Chinese script so I could translate it.', '‘I’m not Chinese,’ I told him. ‘But you know it’s Chinese,’ he pressed.\xa0', 'I was continuously sent on stories that had an East Asian focus with handover notes saying I could ‘speak Chinese.’ And I was constantly denied requests to be assigned stories that didn’t involve my Asian-ness.\xa0', 'Despite various deployments to bureaus around the world, the best stories always went to my male contemporaries.', 'It didn’t seem to matter that I had senior women fighting my corner, or that other people were in a similar position. Our battles always felt futile and we all felt trapped by something we had no control over – how we were born.\xa0', 'His eye-roll and huff was a type of microaggression and one I’d likely encounter again', 'I eventually left the channel and set off on my own where I found work with more globally diverse organisations – but none of them have been a walk in the park.', 'Luckily, I’m now working somewhere I can help call the shots with colleagues who have all been trauma-informed and trained in recognising privilege at work. ', 'Because, while the likes of Jacob Rees-Mogg are dismissive of microaggression training, it’s so important that we teach people to identify that what they’re doing might be hurtful to someone else.\xa0', 'Even more so that we introduce this type of training to people who’d otherwise have no real-life experience of these slights.\xa0', 'It will be interesting to see whether the training offered to civil servants also includes learning about context because knowing who the aggressor is and where they come from is as important as who is taking offence and what their background is.\xa0', 'A senior manager rolling their eyes dismissively at someone in the morning meeting is different to office juniors huffing about an over-complicated tea run. One has the power and authority to change the course of someone’s career. The others are too scared to get a foot wrong.', 'So though, over £160,000 has been spent since 2021 on hiring private sector consultants to train staff to recognise perceived slights, it’s going to take a lot more time, effort and possibly money to ensure these microaggressions are gone from the workplace altogether.', 'But, if at the end of the day, we’re left with a workplace that is equal for all, then it will be time well spent.\xa0', 'I would never wish for anyone to be on the receiving end of microaggressions, but it happens far too often.\xa0', 'This is finally a step in the right direction, and one that nobody should be rolling their eyes at.']"
64,"['‘If you’re seen taking a side, you could lose your job’.', 'I was brought into a small room as my manager gave me a disapproving look.\xa0', '‘If you have to go to these protests,’ she continued, ‘you can’t be photographed. You must, I don’t know, cover your face’.', 'It was 2018 and I worked in a design role in Parliament.\xa0', 'I guess being an activist, I shot myself in the foot for taking the job, but as a struggling artist, I accepted their offer.\xa0', 'By then, I had a history of protesting – my first one in 2003 was demonstrating against the war in Iraq, and I’ve been on marches for LGBTQ+ rights, Black Lives Matter, and recently, in solidarity with Palestine.\xa0', 'I used to leave my face uncovered, proudly standing for my right to speak with passion, for what I believed. ', 'And so, the day after I was reprimanded, I attended one\xa0opposing Brexit\xa0down the road from my office in Westminster. But this time I covered my face with my scarf. As I was told.\xa0', 'Looking over the crowd I recognised someone else from my office as they also raised a scarf over their mouth – and we shared a brief nod of recognition.\xa0', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'Six years later and no longer in the same job, it’s a habit I’ve kept up for my own safety.\xa0', 'But thanks to further crackdowns on protests announced by the Home Office, it could land me in jail, or facing a fine of £1,000.\xa0', 'The Home Office says these new rules are an attempt to clampdown on disruption at protests. But they’re literally meant to cause disruption and that’s always been the case – so what’s changed?', 'As someone who has gone bare-faced and with a covering, I’ve learned that the latter has enhanced my experience.\xa0', 'The truth is, being told to wear a mask in 2018 was great advice – granted it was to protect the department and save face – but it gave me the ability to protest safely. This feels especially important as a queer South-Asian woman who has been abused on marches before.\xa0', 'Masking meant I could stand for what I believe in, and I didn’t have to worry about my identity.\xa0', 'Now, the Home Office have decided they want to take that safety away.', 'But people don’t just wear masks to stop themselves from being identified, but for health\xa0reasons, too.', 'At the 2020 Black Lives Matter protests, I wore a mask because of Covid – as did everyone around me.\xa0', 'And those who have their immune system compromised will also want to wear one still. Everyone has a right to demonstrate, and importantly, they also have the right to minimise the chance of being infected.', 'We\xa0also\xa0have to consider\xa0the sad fact that many of us feel we need protection from those who are policing protests.\xa0', 'In March 2023, a report revealed that the Met Police are institutionally racist, misogynistic and homophobic. Many of us weren’t shocked, and seasoned activists often use masks to distance ourselves from the force.', 'We’ve seen police violence – at Kill the Bill protests in 2021, young people were injured, while at the Sarah Everard vigil, the police pinned women to the floor and arrested them.', 'At recent Palestine solidarity marches, I’ve seen things become heated.\xa0', 'At one, in Southall in December, I witnessed an officer push an elderly Muslim man.', 'Many of the crowd, myself included, took out our phones and started taking pictures.\xa0', 'The majority of those at the demonstration covered their faces – and were largely people of colour.\xa0', 'I was also aware that a significant number of those attending were immigrants, many refugees, who were masked partly so they could avoid falling victim to the precarious asylum system and being sent home.\xa0', 'But it isn’t just the police who create fear. Right wingers attend protests, collect information, photographs and videos – they are uploaded on social media, and messageboards.\xa0', 'Far-right agitators have harassed activists or journalists, with Tommy Robinson even going to one’s address.\xa0', 'In my 20 years of protesting, I’ve been subjected to all manner of abuse. On my first ever demonstration in 2003 against the invasion of Iraq, aged just 18, I was called a ‘f*****g p**i’ by someone who walked past and took issue with my sign.\xa0', 'I was terrified. It was the first time I’d ever been called that.\xa0', 'It was around this time I understood that I had to take care of my safety. It was two years after 9/11, and it was scary being brown in that atmosphere.\xa0', 'It still is, but covering my face makes me a less obvious target.\xa0', 'Taking away our ability to wear masks takes away our ability to create some safety in an unsafe world.', 'And if we lift that mask, that scarf, that line of safety – we all suffer.\xa0']"
65,"['I walked into my bedroom and there was a much older man there.', 'I didn’t actually know his age and we can’t even speak the same language.\xa0', 'He is a stranger to me and we have no choice but to live together.', 'This is because I’m in asylum seeker accommodation and the Home Office thinks I’m 26… but I’m actually 16 and not supposed to be housed with adults.', 'Sometimes I feel so anxious about the whole situation that I get into bed and hide under the blanket to cry.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I miss my mum – and I have never felt so lost.\xa0', 'I’m from Eritrea, in East Africa, and my life there was simple. I’d play with friends and attend school – it was a normal childhood.\xa0', 'But as I reached the age of 14, I started to notice the adults around me going to the military to fight. Some were getting injured or even killed, while others moved into refugee camps.', 'This is because there was a terrible war in Tigray, near to where I lived, and this made life very dangerous for us. There are no elections and no freedom for ordinary people – you can be forced to fight in the war even before you have a chance to finish school, and those who refuse are put in prison.', 'So I knew I had to seek a better future and look for safety elsewhere. It was very hard to leave my friends and family – especially my mum.', 'I worry about my family and the people I left behind, and it’s hard to contact them or know if they are safe', 'Like many young people in my country, I had no documents so I travelled in secret to escape the government.\xa0', 'By foot and sometimes in trucks, I crossed the border to Sudan, then onto Libya and France by boat.', 'It took more than a year, but I was fortunate to meet people who wanted to help me because I was a kid on my own. They gave me food and helped me to cross the sea.', 'After crossing France by land, I arrived in Dunkirk. Then came the dangerous and frightening boat crossing to the UK.', 'On this journey, I was soaked with water and there was a strong smell of petrol. We thought we could drown.', 'But as soon as we reached Dover, I was full of joy – happy to have escaped death.', 'At the same time, I was exhausted. In fact, I was very tired and barely conscious because of the journey and because of what I’d been through.', 'Once in the UK, police escorted us to be interviewed by Home Office officials, which is when they asked my age. So I told them the truth – that I’m 16 years old.', 'Then they put me in a group with others who were underage – familiar faces who I saw on my journey. They gave me a wristband to show I was under 18.', 'They called us into the interview rooms one-by-one. But when they got to me, they didn’t find an interpreter who spoke my specific language, Tigrinya.', 'They said this was because there was no one available. I said I could speak some Arabic, but the interpreter I got wasn’t the same dialect and I didn’t understand the accent.', 'I don’t remember the specific questions they asked me, but it was made all the more confusing because I was exhausted from the journey and the language wasn’t clear.', 'After the interview, they just cut off the wristband they had given me and gave me a paper saying my age was over 20.', 'They told me I am 26. I don’t know how they chose this age and they didn’t tell me why either.', 'They gave me a number for a charity called Migrant Help and I think from my interpreter that they said to me: ‘You will be transferred and we will see about your issue there’.', 'I was very shocked. How could they say that? It all happened so quickly that there was no time to try to convince them otherwise.', 'They told me I am 26. I don’t know how they chose this age and they didn’t tell me why either', 'When I reached the hotel in South Yorkshire, I opened the door to my bedroom, and found an adult there. I told the manager I can’t stay in that room with an adult.', 'So they gave me my own room and it was a better solution for a few weeks, but still very difficult.', 'These first few weeks were scary because the hotel was – and still is – very crowded and there is nothing to do or no one to help me.', 'Unfortunately, now they have brought another adult to share the room with me.', 'The hotel is full of adults, everyone is smoking, and living with older people makes me feel stressed. The Refugee Council came to visit my hotel, and I asked them to help me get my real age back, and they told me a lawyer will handle the case. But still there’s no progress.', 'Of course, I miss my family, the things I used to do, my friends and everything in Eritrea. I worry about my family and the people I left behind, and it’s hard to contact them or know if they are safe.', 'These are difficult days. I just wish I could go to school and make friends like everyone else my age. I want to continue my education so that I can learn English.', 'I’m stressed about this false age they gave me. I see my friends who have had their true age accepted so I feel really depressed about it.', 'The hotel is full of adults, everyone is smoking, and living with older people makes me feel stressed', 'They can go to school and they get support from a social worker if they need help – like seeing a doctor or any other problem they have. People are more understanding with them.', 'I will never accept this false age they’ve given me. I don’t like the feeling that they’ve changed something about me – it’s not me.', 'On top of that, I have nothing to do and it makes my mental health worse.', 'I’ve been trying to get legal help, to get my age corrected, but it’s been more than four months with no change.', 'I dream of being a professional footballer, but I’d be happy to become a barber, or I might work in IT.', 'I really hope that other children coming to the UK as asylum seekers after me don’t have to go through what I’ve been through. I hope the Home Office gives them their true age.', 'But most importantly, I really hope speaking about this will help other people in the same situation.', 'As told to Sonia Lambert at the Refugee Council. Faisal* is not the real name of the author.', 'Hundreds of refugee children who reach the UK are being wrongly assessed as adults, and sent to adult accommodation or detention, where they can face abuse, exploitation and neglect.']"
66,"['As I walked down the street, I looked back and noticed there was a car deliberately following close behind me.', 'I was taking part in a protest against the Sudanese administration at the time, who were cracking down on people speaking out against them.', 'Suddenly, I fell to the ground and the car hit me. The wheel ended up driving over my arm, which broke my hand and cut the nerve.', 'I still have the large scars – as well as pain – today. It’s for this reason that my aunt advised me to flee Sudan and come to the UK – a decision that’s left me as a person seeking asylum.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'At school, I didn’t study much – my hobbies were all sports. I loved playing football with my friends. Devastatingly, my mother died in 2011 because of a long-standing heart condition. I was heartbroken.', 'Then in 2018 – at the age of 16 – my best friend (who I considered a brother) took part in a demonstration against the military dictatorship at the time, which was randomly arresting people. The demonstrations were demanding the regime go, and also protesting the economic situation in the country.', 'After this, I felt that I had to participate in the demonstrations in his memory. That’s when I was personally targeted by the Rapid Support Forces – Sudan’s largest militias – and ran over with the aforementioned car.', 'My aunt knew that they wouldn’t stop until they killed me so in 2021, she convinced me to leave Sudan for Europe. She just wanted me to be safe, but the next year or so was an ordeal, to say the least.', 'I have no family in the UK so I just keep thinking about everything my aunt did to pay for my journey', 'I initially went to neighbouring Chad for two weeks and then onto Libya for 10 months. After that, I travelled to Italy on an overcrowded plastic dinghy. It was a long and exhausting journey.', 'We were picked up by a ship, then I was brought to shore. When I told my aunt that I had reached Italy, she was relieved and happy.', 'I was planning to settle in Sicily, but after three months in a camp for refugees without medical treatment or support from the government for accommodation or in claiming asylum, I travelled to Rome. When I got there, I had no other option than to live under a bridge because Italian authorities said I had no chance of settling there.', 'That’s when my aunt then advised me to continue my journey to find a country where I could get the medical treatment I needed – such as France or the UK. I ended up meeting an agent who was helping people get from Italy to France by lorry.', 'He charged €50 (£45), which I couldn’t afford, so I borrowed €20 (£18) from a friend I’d met on my journey. Because of this financial shortfall, I was told that I would have just one chance to get to France.', 'Thankfully, I made it but once I did, I had to get to the UK by boat. To do this, the agent was asking for a further €500 (£448), so my aunt sent the money through.', 'We were moved to a forest to prepare us to get onto the boat – but there was no food or water. After three days of nothing to eat or drink, the group I was with had to carry the boat we’d be using to cross the English Channel one hour from the forest to the sea. This was very difficult with my hand injury.', 'When we arrived at the shore, an agent gave us a compass and GPS, then assured us it was just a short distance to England.', 'After a long time on the sea, some people with iPhones on the boat realised we’d been going in the wrong direction. This confusion caused even more panic for us all. Eventually, we were found by a French ship, who guided us to Dover.', 'We finally made it to the UK after a tiring and frightening boat journey. I’m thankful that I survived, when many others do not.', 'As soon as I got here, I felt relieved because I was finally safe. I applied for asylum after this, but I haven’t been granted it yet.', 'Now, most of the time, I find myself thinking about my aunt. I have no family in the UK so I just keep thinking about everything my aunt did to pay for my journey.', 'Up Next', 'Her son later told me that she now lives in a very dire situation in Sudan. She can’t even afford to buy food, which she never told me about. So I feel helpless and hopeless because I can’t give her anything back.\xa0', 'I am also very worried about my arm injury. A doctor in Sudan initially told me that I would need another operation or I might lose the movement in my hand. I have managed to see a doctor in the UK, who put me on a waiting list for surgery, but I am still waiting for this to happen.', 'I am hoping to carry on playing football in the UK and am now registered with a team in Solihull where I am living. Football is my ambition as long as my hand injuries don’t stop me. In the meantime, I am running a lot to prepare myself and keep physically fit.', 'I play in attack. My favourite British team is Chelsea and I even met the coach – he has my number so I hope he is going to call me back.', 'I stay busy by trying to keep fit and active. In fact, it was through running a 10km race that I was introduced to a woman called Sameera, who is a community liaison coordinator with Migrant Help – a charity supporting people seeking asylum and refugees.', 'She has since done a lot for me, including taking me – among a group of others – on a visit to Wales, as well as helped secure a bike for me. Sameera also encouraged me to enrol in Solihull College and I am now making really good progress learning English.', 'Sometimes people don’t even want to come out of their rooms to have their meals. Everyone is thinking that at any time they may be going to be removed to Rwanda. We’re all very concerned.', 'People like me have had to risk our lives by leaving our countries because we faced many difficulties.', 'I’d like to go back to Sudan one day if it was safe for me, but it isn’t at present. People like me just want to feel secure and live happy lives.', 'This article was originally published in February 2023']"
67,"['Protesters in south London have blocked a coach set to transport asylum seekers to the Bibby Stockholm barge.', 'A large group of people, many with their faces covered, surrounded the coach outside the Best Western Hotel in Peckham on Thursday and prevented it from leaving.', 'Police have warned the group they face arrest if they do not disperse, but protesters said they were\xa0‘determined’ to stop the coach from leaving.', 'Those in attendance formed a human ring around the bus, while others jammed Lime bikes underneath the wheels.', 'Up Next', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Welfare group SOAS Detainee Support posted on X calling for more people to help them stop the coach leaving but said the protesters were ‘determined’ it would not.', 'The posts said: ‘Comrades have stopped our friends being taken to the\xa0Bibby\xa0barge – but more numbers needed!', '‘We’ve also learned the coach is meant to be taking people from three other hotels en route.', '‘Resistance may be needed at these three hotels if the coach eventually leaves Peckham – but the comrades are determined it won’t!’', 'Up Next', 'Video footage of the scene shows protesters could be heard chanting ‘no borders, no nations, stop deportations’.', 'After refusing to disperse, the protest eventually descended into violence, and police have confirmed that a number of arrests have been made.', 'A statement from the Metropolitan Police said: ‘Police were called at around 08:40hrs to reports of a group of protesters near a hotel in Peckham Road SE15.', '‘There were reports that a coach had been obstructed by people and bicycles. A number of people have been arrested for offences including obstruction of the highway, and one for a racially aggravated public order offence. They have all been taken into custody.”', 'Deputy Assistant Commissioner Ade Adelekan said: ‘My officers were quickly on scene and have engaged with the protesters at length. My officers had warned the group that obstructing the highway, and obstructing police, are criminal offences and that they could be arrested.', '‘We will always respect the right to peaceful protest but we have been clear that where there is serious disruption and criminality then we will take decisive action. The situation is ongoing and we will provide more information when we can.’', 'The move came after the\xa0Home Office\xa0recently abandoned plans to move a group of asylum seekers in Kent to the Bibby Stockholm barge after they were met with heavy resistance.', 'The men living in\xa0Margate,\xa0Kent, were told they would be transferred to the asylum accommodation in\xa0Dorset\xa0earlier this month.', 'But they were forced to abandon their plans after residents turned up en masse to prevent them from leaving.', 'A letter sent by Government officials on Monday said: ‘The formal notice to quit the property is now withdrawn with immediate effect.', '‘You will no longer need to travel to the Bibby Stockholm.’', 'Mayor of Margate Rob Yates said residents wanted to support the men, from Afghanistan and Pakistan, who have become part of the community after living and volunteering in the area for seven months.', '‘I think the Margate community is ready to protect its own residents,’ he told reporters.', '‘We tried to avoid shouting or disrupting traffic while blocking the coach, resulting in no police involvement and hopefully helped to make the men in the hotel feel safe.', '‘Going forwards, we’re ready to do this again. Community activism is a valid tool when it comes to protecting asylum seekers, and I think in this current climate (it) is one that we should all consider.’']"
68,"['Taking a sip of my drink, a friend of a friend smiled at me. ', '‘So you moved to London a few years ago,’ she said. ‘Where are you from?’', '‘I’m from the West Midlands,’ I explained in my thick Black Country accent. ‘Born and bred in a town next to Wolverhampton.’', 'I\xa0crossed my fingers that this would be the end of that particular line of conversation, but\xa0sadly not. She gave me a look of curiosity, opened her mouth again and there it was, the response I always get.', '‘But where are you\xa0really\xa0from?’', 'It’s a question I’ve grown to dislike, dread even. ', 'It implies that perhaps I don’t belong here, and that my appearance somehow negates my Britishness.\xa0', 'My mum came to England\xa0from Pakistan\xa0nearly 40 years ago as an immigrant, and my dad, who is of Scottish-Pakistani origin, grew up here, just like me.\xa0', 'Their different backgrounds and experiences add layers to my identity that are rich with complexities and nuances.', 'All my life, I have heard the ‘where are you really from’ question, and\xa0I’ve\xa0finally\xa0figured it’s usually because of two reasons.\xa0', 'The first is because people are curious;\xa0it is ok to be curious, as long as you respect my\xa0initial\xa0answer.\xa0', 'The second is because I look ‘different’.\xa0', 'My brown skin, thick black curly hair and ethnic\xa0features give away that I’m not entirely ‘English’, yet people can’t pinpoint my exact origins\xa0because\xa0nor do I fit neatly into their preconceived notions of different ethnic groups, such as Pakistanis.', 'And growing up, I always felt different. In fact, I was often embarrassed and ashamed to be Pakistani.', 'Secondary school was particularly challenging, especially whenever certain news stories circulated about terrorism, rape or immigration, which led to negative preconceptions about Pakistanis.', 'When my schoolmates found out I was Pakistani, I became a target. They asked insensitive and offensive questions, such as whether my mum was a letterbox or if my brother was a suicide bomber.\xa0', 'They created a false narrative about my life that was far from reality.', 'It took me many years to become proud of my heritage – and even now it’s something I feel uncomfortable\xa0being questioned\xa0about.', 'Because, even when I do explain that I am Pakistani to friends of friends or Uber drivers or new colleagues, they will still often openly express their confusion.\xa0\xa0', 'Some will tell me that I don’t look Pakistani, while others go so far as to ask, ‘Are you sure you’re not mixed with anything?’', 'It’s really not a compliment – and I’m far from alone in this experience.', 'Research company Wunderman Thompson UK has undertaken social media analysis that revealed the question ‘where are you really from?’ has had over 13,000 mentions and 623million impressions in the last year.', 'East and South Asians account for 22% of the conversations, while Black people make up 30%, revealing this is a shared experience primarily among people of colour – and it’s mostly a negative one.\xa0', 'People need to realise it is unacceptable to question someone’s ethnicity based on appearances.\xa0', 'Such questioning perpetuates the idea that there is a specific look associated with coming from a particular country – whether that be Pakistan, the UK or anywhere else.', 'Especially when the South Asian experience is a rich tapestry woven with intersectionality – each of our unique journeys are shaped by the interplay of various social identities, such as gender, race, religion and socioeconomic status.\xa0', 'So the question, ‘Where are you really from?’ is very reductive considering the diversity of our backgrounds and experiences.\xa0', 'Now, to those who ask where I’m ‘really’ from, I’ve learnt to ask them a specific, more thought-provoking, question of my own. ‘What do you think a Pakistani looks like?’', 'Hopefully, this will make them pause, and examine the stereotypes they might unconsciously hold.\xa0', 'And\xa0maybe, make\xa0them as uncomfortable as their question makes me feel.\xa0', 'In our interconnected world, cultural diversity is a beautiful aspect that enriches our society, but it can also be met with ignorance and insensitivity, even when unintentional.\xa0', 'Let’s break this cycle.\xa0', 'So, next time you’re curious about someone’s origins, take a moment to consider the implications of your questions and how they might make someone feel – and please respect their initial answer.']"
70,"['‘It’s been a long time, but I felt like writing as Mum tells me I have a sister! I’m so happy that you’re transitioning and being your authentic self.’', 'I sat at my computer and emailed my sister Leonora*. We hadn’t been in\xa0regular\xa0contact for\xa026 years\xa0and we were never on the best of terms as kids.', 'But she didn’t write back.', 'A few days later, I tried again.\xa0', '‘I’d really like to be able to support you through this time, I know it can’t be easy. I hope people are being accepting and kind.’', 'In the email, I made sure I apologised for being a rubbish big sister.', 'Again, Leonora didn’t reply and I burst into tears.', 'I really wanted to support her because I knew from\xa0social media\xa0that so many people out there would question her very existence and validity as a trans woman.\xa0I knew that she had few people in her life, and so a loving sister could make a big difference to her wellbeing.', 'And I had hoped I would gain a new sibling in return, because I had never had one.', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'I wanted to make\xa0a fresh start\xa0–\xa0but it looked like this would be more difficult than I’d imagined.', 'Last autumn, my mother phoned me up, saying she had something difficult to tell me about my younger sibling Leo*. I started to panic,\xa0my mind went to dark places and I began to worry\xa0that Leo had a terminal illness.\xa0', 'When Mum finally told me they were transitioning from male to female, and that I now had a sister called Leonora, I was hugely relieved. Not just because she was safe and well, but because, looking back, it made total sense.', 'Growing up, Leonora had always seemed very uneasy and uncomfortable in her own skin. She had been self-conscious and miserable and had trouble relating to others and making friends.', 'She was bullied at school, had few confidantes and rarely brought kids home to play.\xa0Instead,\xa0she\xa0kept herself to herself\xa0and\xa0was very quiet, cynical and reclusive.', 'She\xa0always\xa0seemed to be struggling with something\xa0– and\xa0I now realised it was the fact that she had been born in the wrong body.', 'I had always been very pro-trans and wanted to support Leonora in her transition, but there was a problem: We’d been estranged since 1997.\xa0', 'Our childhood had been very bleak – we were both being violently and emotionally abused by our father.', 'Out of this abuse, I began to resent\xa0Leonora greatly because she had been – and still was – our mum’s favourite.\xa0', 'When our dad had flown into rages, our mum had been more likely to protect Leonora than me.\xa0', 'I had assumed this was because she was the baby, being younger. But now I wonder: Had our mum sensed that Leonora was uniquely vulnerable?', 'Our dad subscribed to regressive stereotypes and traditional gender roles, and often urged Leonora to ‘Be a man!’\xa0', 'When we were tweens, our dad bought us both a magazine each month: I got Discovering Needlecraft and Leonora got a car magazine. I loved embroidering handkerchiefs, but Leonora couldn’t have been less interested in cars.\xa0', 'Leonora and I had never really got on – she was quiet, obedient and studious; I was chatty, extroverted and rebellious.\xa0', 'Whenever she annoyed me, I would kick her legs, pinch her, pull her hair\xa0or\xa0nick the remote control off her when she was watching telly. I deeply regret\xa0how I behaved.', 'She stormed down the hall and punched me hard in the face, giving me a black eye', 'At the time, I had no idea what she was going through –\xa0it was the 1980s and I’d never heard of trans people.', 'Then, there was an incident.', 'In 1997, when I was 17 and she was 13, the internet was powered by an old-style dial-up system. Back then, you couldn’t be online and on the phone at the same time.\xa0', 'I wanted to make a call to a boy I liked, so I pulled out the internet lead and plugged in the phone. I was unaware that at that exact time,\xa0Leonora was in her room gaming.\xa0', 'She stormed down the hall and punched me hard in the face, giving me a black eye.\xa0I was utterly and totally shocked –\xa0she’d never been violent like this before.', 'My eye swelled up and no amount of makeup covered the bruising.\xa0', 'That day, our father congratulated Leonora on ‘finally being a man’.\xa0', 'I was outraged\xa0– in that moment, I decided that Leonora had become abusive like him\xa0and I swore to have nothing more to do with her.', 'We lived in the same house for another six years, but I totally avoided her and refused to engage with her – not that she really tried to engage with me. I think she knew she’d gone too far.', 'Nine years after punching me, Leonora emigrated to America.\xa0', 'Over the next two decades, I emailed her twice and she emailed me once, attempting to reconcile, but neither of us responded to the other. ', 'This series aims to offer a nuanced look at familial estrangement.', ""Estrangement is not a one-size-fits-all situation, and we want to give voice to those who've been through it themselves.""]"
71,"['I’d just got home from a family trip to meet Santa at our local farm park in December when a colleague messaged me to say that James Cleverly, the Home Secretary, was making an announcement in the House of Commons about measures to reduce net migration.', 'Needless to say, it was not the Christmas gift I was expecting that day.', 'As an employee at Praxis – a human rights charity working with migrants experiencing destitution and homelessness – I had been expecting some sort of update from the Government ever since record levels of net migration made headlines in November.', 'But this didn’t mute the shock I felt when I tuned in to hear Cleverly reveal that the amount a household needs to make if one partner is a foreigner was going up. Not by a couple of grand, nor in line with inflation, but by more than £20,000 (from £18,600 to £38,700 by 2025).', 'So when I read about yet another Tory visa fee hike, it felt like Groundhog Day.\xa0', 'In another desperate attempt to divert attention from failing public services, falling wages and the cost of living crisis, Prime Minister Rishi Sunak is promising to raise visa fees again if the Conservatives are re-elected in July – this time to pay for 8,000 more police officers.', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'The UK already has some of the highest visa fees in the world – largely because the Home Office currently charges as much as four times what it costs them to process. Last year, fees went up by anywhere between 7% and 66%.', 'Another above-inflation increase would be a disaster for the people we support at Praxis. People are already forced to choose between saving for their fees and feeding their children.', 'When my Turkish husband, Medet, and I first met in Istanbul in 2010, it never crossed my mind that we might not have a choice about where to live.', 'Like many people with the luxury of never previously dealing with the UK’s immigration system, it simply didn’t occur to me then that – as a British citizen – I might not have the right to make a life together with my husband in the country where I was born and raised.', 'We settled in Istanbul after we got married in 2014 and had two children, but a few years later – for a whole range of reasons – we began to think about moving to the UK.', 'The application for my husband’s first spouse visa in 2021 was eye-wateringly expensive, but we were lucky. We had the money to shell out the requisite £3,000 – made up of a £1,538 application fee and £1,560 to access the NHS for 2.5 years – and I had a job offer with a salary that met the minimum income threshold of £18,600 per year.', 'Up Next', 'Over the last two and a half years, we’ve slowly navigated all the adjustments that come with a big move. Our kids are enjoying school and nursery, and we were finally feeling settled in our new home in Leicester.', 'But both last year’s and this week’s announcement has been a painful reminder that, because Medet and I dared to fall in love across borders, we can’t be sure of our future together here.', 'Unfortunately, when you marry someone not born in the UK and try to build a life with them here, you get used to the constant, low-level anxiety of not knowing what the Government will do next that might make your lives more difficult.', 'In my line of work, I know only too well how this Government uses immigration policy to casually devastate lives in the name of capturing headlines.', 'It hiked the NHS surcharge (a fee almost all newcomers have to pay for access to the NHS) by 66% so that it now costs more than £1,000 per year, and shot up fees that the Home Office charges for visas, after already increasing others by up to 35% in October. It’s clear to me that the Government has no shortage of ways to inflict pain on migrants and seemingly few qualms about doing so.', 'All things being equal, Medet and I are in the incredibly lucky position that we won’t be affected by the December change in the income required to sponsor a spouse visa – or this latest announcement.', 'My husband just paid £4,000 last week to renew his leave to remain, so this increase wouldn’t impact me personally until the next round of visa renewal application will be due in two and a half years.', 'Up Next', 'Having said that, these announcements reminded me that our future together in this country isn’t in our control. My mind can’t stop racing through the possibilities: what if one of us gets sick and can’t work? What if I lose my job? And most worrying of all: what will we do if one day we can’t meet the requirement?', 'Although I think we’ll be spared the horror of being forced to leave the country of which my children and I are citizens or – worse – being separated as a family, I can’t help but be afraid of what might come next.', 'And, more than anything, I can’t stop thinking about all the families who don’t earn enough, and now face an impossible choice about what to do next.', 'At Praxis, we’re deeply worried about what these and other recent changes to immigration regulations are going to mean for thousands of people across the UK.', 'We expect to see more families pushed into more difficult situations, where they have to pay more in visa fees and wait longer before they can apply for permanent residency in this country. We’re deeply sceptical about the Government’s claim that this will help to reduce net migration.', 'One thing is clear: we will see families torn apart by these changes, with horrendous consequences, especially for children.', 'We’ve known for a long time that this Government is not interested in the impact of its policies on migrants living in the UK.', 'It now seems that, in its quest to be ‘tough’ on migration, they’re also happy to trample all over the rights of British citizens too.', 'You can find out more about the work that Praxis does on their website here.']"
72,"['Up Next', 'A teenage girl has been murdered on a migrant boat as it sank while crossing the Mediterranean, it has been claimed. ', 'The 16-year-old was allegedly raped by a man on the boat, angered at seeing his wife and daughter drown when the yacht started sinking. ', 'A 27-year-old has been arrested on suspicion of murder after the victim’s mother, who witnessed the incident, reported it when they landed in Roccella Jonica, southern Italy. ', 'They were on a boat from Turkey when it sank in the middle of the Med, according to Italian outlet AGI.', 'Search and rescue teams later recovered further 35 bodies, bringing the official death toll to 36. Among them were 15 children. ', 'It has also been claimed that it took the coastguard four days to arrive at the scene while passengers clung to the remains of the vessel. ', 'The perilous journey has been organised from a spot near Bodrum, Turkey. ', 'More than 70 people are thought to have paid for a place in the boat, with majority of passengers being Kurds from Iran and Iraq, the broadcaster reports. ', 'Mitra Ghasem Karimi, from Iran who now lives in Stockholm, Sweden, had travelled to Roccella Ionica in desperate search for her brother and sister who had been on the vessel and were lost at sea. ', 'She told Sky News: ‘There was no water, there was no food in the boat – but to the families and the people who got in that damn boat, [the smugglers] said yes, there is water, food.', '‘My brother and sister had life jackets, but they would not let them take them with them. Why?’ ', 'Mitra and her husband paid €6,000 to hire a helicopter to look for any signs in the vast sea. ', 'The sea route across Mediterranean is one of the deadliest for migrants, with thousands of lives lost each year. ', 'Since 2014, almost 30,000 migrants have been recorded missing in the Mediterranean, according to the Missing Migrants Project. ']"
76,"['‘Tom’ has lived in various squats for ten years. Homeless since he was 17, he hasn’t known a permanent safe place to call home at any point in his adult life.\xa0', 'Now 28, Tom’s lost count of the different types of property he’s lived in, but, so far, he has managed to find somewhere to sleep in abandoned warehouses, vacant offices, empty schools, a police station, fire station, post office and even a leisure centre.', '‘It’s a just a way of life,’ Tom tells Metro. He’s part of the Reclaim Croydon collective, a squatters’\xa0group, which has taken over disused commercial premises to provide beds for the homeless as a community-based solution to a broken housing market. The group has refurbished around 30 empty buildings since it was formed last year, providing homes for over 100 people.', 'After arriving in the UK from Eastern Europe a decade ago, Tom explains that he was unable to find a property to rent and ended up sleeping on the streets. Eventually some squatters offered him a roof over his head and he felt ‘safe for the first time’. He’s been living rent-free ever since.\xa0', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tIn the shopping streets and housing estates of the south London town of Croydon, some once-derelict buildings are slowly coming back to life.\n\nThe Reclaim Croydon collective, a squatters group, has taken over disused commercial premises to provide beds for the homeless, saying it is providing a community-based solution to a broken housing market.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'You can access completely fee-free mortgage advice with London & Country (L&C) Mortgages, a partner of Metro. Customers benefit from:', '– Award winning service from the UK’s leading mortgage broker', '– Expert advisors on hand 7 days a week', '– Access to 1000s of mortgage deals from across the market', 'Unlike many mortgage brokers, L&C won’t charge you a fee for their advice.', 'Find out how much you could borrow online', 'Mortgage service provided by London & Country Mortgages (L&C), which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (registered number: 143002). The FCA does not regulate most Buy to Let mortgages. Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.', '‘I live with a crew – a collective of people who have to live together,’ he says. ‘For legal reasons, someone always has to be at the squat as it is a form of occupation. But people have jobs and lives – they are all people I trust and love. They have become like a family now.’\xa0', 'He is using a pseudonym, Tom adds, as he wants to protect his identity. While squatting is legal in commercial buildings, he has come up against the police who have tried to illegally evict him in the past and doesn’t want to draw the attention of the authorities.\xa0', 'The Croydon squat he currently lives in looks like a home; it is cosy, comfortable and taken care of. Until squatters moved in, it was a private block of flats that had been left empty and neglected.', '‘We refurbished it, got rid of the mold and repainted it,’ Tom explains. ‘When people walk by they probably wouldn’t know it is a squat. There is a regular front door with a doorbell and everyone has their own key.’', 'Tom works as a builder and used his skills to help his housemates fix up the plumbing, toilets, lighting and installed new flooring in the crumbling building. They overhauled the overgrown yard that had been taken over by brambles, planting flower beds and clearing pathways, and extended their efforts to the churchyard next door.', '‘We are not a burden. We take care of the buildings,’ Tom adds. ‘Of course there are bad squatters that give us a bad name, but we are contributing to society.’', 'But it’s a less than perfect solution for Tom who lives with the contestant threat of eviction over his head. As does 28-year-old Leaf, who comes from Reading.', 'Leaf, who is non-binary, currently sleeps in an abandoned youth centre, and has spent years living on the streets and in squats because rising rents had outstripped government welfare and housing benefits.', '‘If the people in charge actually gave a damn about anyone who was struggling, they would make those [empty] houses habitable. Homelessness is a direct political choice’, Leaf recently told Reuters. ‘The government is failing homeless people.’\xa0', 'One in every 25 homes in England is currently sitting vacant, according to Action on Empty Homes. There are nearly 700,000 in England that are unfurnished and standing empty, while at least 309,000 people are living homeless, according to the most recent figures from the charity Shelter. ', 'However, homelessness is notoriously difficult to quantify and figures are likely to be much higher, say activists and campaigners.\xa0', 'The British Landlords Association estimates squatting in commercial buildings is up by almost 300% since December 2021, a problem its head, Sajjad Ahmad, blames on government policies rather than squatters.', '‘A lot of these people that you see on the street or squatting in buildings are not drug addicts. You speak to them, and you realise that some of them are qualified individuals who still hold down jobs,’ he says. ', 'Tom’s current home, which used to be home to the Met police and then later private tenancies, was falling into disrepair when he moved in. When its last owner disappeared – a landlord who went bankrupt – Tom’s crew fixed it up and now every member of the 20-strong crew has their own room.', 'Having a bedroom is one of the group’s minimum standards. They argue that anyone who comes into the squat from the street should expect their own space, their own mattress, a heater and some bedding.', 'The squat is ruled by democracy; when they need to sort something out, like how to get rid of waste, they get together, have a beer and come to a decision; in this case – club together and pay for a skip.\xa0', '‘Decisions are taken very easily in the group. It is like a meeting but not. Everyone contributes as much as they can, but no one is forced,’ Tom explains. The inhabitants use unlimited internet from phone contracts and the electricity and water bills are sorted out between them.\xa0', 'Like Tom, Youness Elaissaoui, 49, lives in a squat in Croydon. He’s grateful for the roof over his head and says being given a room in a former school ‘was the first time I felt like a human being after I came to the UK’.\xa0', 'Youness, a Moroccan immigrant, explains: ‘I have been squatting for more than two years. The UK is the place I feel most safe. When I reached London in 2017, I slept for my first three nights in Victoria Station. Then for five months I was sleeping on the bus. Home for me has a lot of meaning; relaxing, sleeping, safety and protection.’\xa0', 'However, squats are not always places of safety. Hayley Knight, of charity Flow Aid which provides vulnerable and homeless women with free menstrual products, explains that we do not know how many women are squatting or sleeping rough because so many of them hide from the authorities, abusive relationships and abusive homes, becoming ‘invisible women’.\xa0', 'She tells Metro: ‘20% of homeless women that are accounted for are squatting. Many have significant welfare needs; including those of mental and physical health.', '‘Evidence shows that homeless people who squat have higher levels of needs than those on the street and 34% of homeless people who squat have been in care, 42% are disabled and 41% have mental health issues. They are an incredibly vulnerable group.’', 'It is a problem that disproportionately affects ethnic minorities too with a 2022 report showing that black people are more than three times as likely to experience homelessness as white people in England and twice as likely in Scotland. Like Oumnia, who lives with her young children in a small, sparsely furnished former girl’s school that has been empty for four years.\xa0', 'Oumnia lives in an outbuilding with its own small kitchen and bathroom, which she says is preferable to the small room she was offered in a hostel. ‘It was not enough for us, and it’s not healthy,’ she told Reuters.\xa0', 'Like Tom, Oumnia doesn’t know how long she will be able to stay in the school. And while Tom’s home is comfortable for now, it’s not a permanent solution.\xa0', '‘All of us wish for our own place. Yes – squatting is a lifestyle; a community. But this is just a response to the housing crisis,’ he says. ‘It would be much easier to have a simple flat with a bed and a bathroom and not live with the constant fear of being evicted hanging over your head. ', '‘Last week we had three attempts of illegal eviction in different squats in Croydon. We resisted. You have violence from the landlords or bailiffs to deal with. And people aren’t always used to living in a community like ours. Sometimes it can be intense. People have traumas, they end up in our community for a reason. And you have to learn how to deal with that. ', '‘If buildings are sitting empty, it is morally wrong that people can’t use them to stay warm and dry. Those buildings will fall apart and be taken down if they remain empty. ', '‘We are a happy community, but we’d be a lot happier if there wasn’t the constant threat of eviction from all around.’']"
77,"['The 2024 General Election is here as p[rolling stations open across the UK – and healthcare will be top of the priority list for millions of voters.', 'It’s been a turbulent few years for the health sector with ever-growing NHS waiting lists, a spike in A&E waiting times and medical workers striking to push for a pay rise.', 'With that in mind, one of the key issues for Britain’s political parties to address will be healthcare.', 'Follow the latest from the General Election campaign on our live blog\xa0', 'Here is a breakdown of exactly what each party is promising in their manifesto policies for healthcare, should they come into power following the vote on July 4.', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'The Conservatives have vowed to increase NHS spending above the rate of inflation every year if it wins the election in an attempt to tackle ongoing issues.', '‘We are committed to accelerating the NHS’s recovery from the pandemic, delivering safe and effective services and ongoing improvements in waiting times for primary, elective, cancer and emergency care,’ the party’s manifesto said.', 'The Tories will focus efforts on putting 92,000 more nurses and 28,000 doctors on the frontline, as well as delivering on the promise of 40 new hospitals, investing in new facilities and training more staff in rural and coastal areas.', 'Efforts to ‘transform the NHS for patients and staff’ will also come in the way of a £3.4billion investment in new technology, it said, with a particular focus on making the NHS the ‘single front door for NHS services’.', 'Rishi Sunak’s party also wants to improve mental health support by doubling the amount of help available within schools and colleges by 2030. The Conservatives also want to increase the amount of talking therapy available by 50% to support those with anxiety, stress and depression.', 'Women’s health will also be ‘prioritised’ with a national strategy for maternal care introduced and additional funding delivered for maternal safety, as well as improving access to mental health services for new mums.\xa0', 'Sir Keir Starmer said in the Labour manifesto that ‘we must rebuild our country’ and at the heart of that objective are ‘five national missions’. Among those is ensuring ‘our NHS is once again at the cutting edge of healthcare’, he said.', 'Labour lists one of its ‘first steps for change’ as ‘cutting NHS waiting times’. It plans to do so by providing 40,000 more appointments each week during evenings and weekends, with a promise that patients won’t have to wait longer than 18 weeks to see a specialist from the point of referral.', 'Similarly to the Conservatives, Labour plans to improve technology and transform the NHS by introducing new CT and MRI scanners, computers, using AI, and overhauling the NHS app to put patients ‘in control of their own health to better manage their medicine, appointments, and health needs’.\xa0', 'Thousands of GPs will be trained to guarantee face-to-face appointments and ‘end the 8am scramble’.', 'Mental health is at the top of Labour’s priority list by recruiting 8,500 more workers to bring down waiting times and pave the way for earlier interventions for patients. New staff will also be specially trained to support people and reduce the number of lives lost to suicide.', 'Labour has also laid out a dentistry rescue plan and a new programme of reform to create a National Care Service to improve social care.', 'Action will be taken on public health including making it illegal to buy cigarettes, banning vapes from being branded or advertised, tackling childhood obesity, banning advertising of junk food to children and stopping the sale of high-caffeine energy drinks to under-16s.', 'Again, similarly to their Tory counterparts, Labour will prioritise women’s health as part of its efforts to ‘reform’ the NHS.', 'The Liberal Democrats claimed last month that more than half of Brits using private healthcare say they decided not to use the NHS because of the length of waiting lists.', 'And the party has made it its number one healthcare priority to significantly reduce waiting times for medical appointments.', 'The Lib Dem manifesto says: ‘With more than 100,000 staff vacancies in England alone, a crisis in staff retention, long waiting times, missed targets and poor outcomes, patient safety is being pushed into the danger zone.', '‘We will strengthen patients’ rights, fix crumbling hospitals, recruit and retain a workforce for the future, invest in technology that improves outcomes and saves money, and restore the UK as a world leader in health research.’', 'It aims to go about fulfilling those promises by recruiting 8,000 more GPs in order to deliver on the policy that everyone will be able to see a doctor within seven days – or within 24 hours if it’s urgent.', 'Mental health will also be a priority with plans to improve access to support services, establishing mental health hubs and introducing regular check ups.', 'Ed Davey’s party also wants to guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everyone needing urgent and emergency care, ‘ending DIY dentistry and dental deserts’.', 'And finally, perhaps one if its most important policies is to boost cancer survival rates and introduce a guarantee for 100% of patients to start treatment within 62 days of an urgent referral.', 'The Green Party has made it a priority to protect the NHS, prevent it from collapse and stop further privatisation.', 'Its manifesto says: ‘The Green Party is committed to a fully public, properly funded health and social care system, and to keeping the profit motive well away from the NHS.’', 'Green MPs will push for a year-on-year reduction in waiting lists, guaranteed rapid access to a GP – and on the same day if urgent, and boosting the pay of NHS staff, such as junior doctors, to help with staff retention. It will also make dentistry care more accessible.', 'Carla Denyer and Adrian Ramsay’s party says it wants to increase funding for mental health care to enable people to access therapy within 28 days, as well as ensuring trained and paid counsellors are at every school and sixth-form college. ', 'There will also be tailored provision to\xa0‘meet the needs of communities of colour, children and adolescents, older people and LGBTIQA+ communities’.', 'Among its most eye-opening policies is to support a change in the law to legalise assisted dying. This will be for people suffering from terminal disease who wish to avoid prolonged unnecessary suffering.', 'It also aims to end new cases of HIV by 2030.', 'One of Reform UK’s top five pledges says: ‘Imagine no NHS waiting lists.’ It shows that cutting down waiting lists for healthcare is one of its top priorities.', 'Nigel Farage’s party says the NHS and healthcare system needs ‘major urgent reforms to improve results and enjoy zero waiting lists’.', 'It aims to do so in a number of ways, but will first carry out ‘critical reforms’ in the first 100 days, such as ensuring all frontline NHS and social care staff pay zero basic rate tax for three years to try and end doctor and nurse shortages.', 'Reform UK will then provide NHS patients with a voucher for private treatment if they cannot see a GP within three days, a consultant within three weeks or have an operation within nine weeks. It says services will always be free at the point of use.', 'The party wants to charge patients who fail to attend medical appointments without notice.', 'It has also pledged to ‘save A&E’ by cutting waiting times with a campaign of ‘pharmacy first, GP second, A&E last’.']"
78,"['There’s an awful lot to talk about in the 2024 General Election campaign, and immigration is proving to be a key battleground.', 'The issue is made up of two distinct parts: illegal immigration, most visibly the small boats crossing the English Channel; and legal immigration, which largely revolves around visas.', 'Follow the latest 2024 General Election news on Metro’s live blog', 'According to the Conservatives and Labour, the number of both illegal and legal migrants coming into the UK is too high – but they disagree on what to do about it.', 'Nigel Farage has attempted to shift the focus even further onto this issue after his late entry into the race as leader of Reform UK.', 'Click on the links below to jump to a run-down of each main party’s pledges on immigration:', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'The Tories have repeatedly vowed to ‘stop the boats’, referring to the small vessels which have carried an estimated 11,000 undocumented migrants and asylum seekers into the UK this year.', 'Rishi Sunak’s government has increased cooperation with French coastguards and signed a major deal with the EU to tackle people smuggling.', 'One of his main points going forward is ‘seeing through’ plans to send people who arrive in the UK illegally to Rwanda, though he has admitted the first flights won’t take off before July 4.', 'The Tories have also signed returns deals with individual countries such as Alabania.', 'They’re pledging to sign more of these deals and ‘rewrite asylum treaties to make them fit for the challenges we face’.', 'As for legal immigration, the party announced its plan to introduce a new annual cap on visas late last night.', 'Ministers have pointed to figures from the Office for National Statistics showing a reduction in net migration last year as evidence their current efforts are working – though the total the previous year, in 2022, was historically high.', 'Net migration is worked out by subtracting the total number of people who left the country by the total number of people who entered the country, to show how immigration has affected the UK population.', 'Labour is also pledging to ‘stop the boats’ but will completely scrap the Rwanda scheme.', 'Keir Starmer has said he would spend the money reserved for the scheme on beefing up the UK’s border enforcement.', 'This would include setting up a new ‘Border Security Command’ with powers to search people at the border, investigate the financing behind people smuggling and issue search and seizure warrants targeting organised people smugglers.', 'On legal migration, Labour would also introduce policies to ‘make sure British businesses are helped to hire Brits first’.', 'Businesses applying for foreign work visas for new recruits would first have to help train British people to do the jobs they’re recruiting for.', 'Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper has ruled out scrapping the Tories’ decision to hike minimum salary requirements for certain skilled work visas by up to 50%.', 'The Lib Dems have no plans to reduce immigration numbers and are pledging to scrap the current salary requirement for migrant workers.', 'The party would replace it with a ‘flexible merit-based system’, though details of how this would work are vague.', 'Their manifesto says government officials would be ‘working with employers in each sector to address specific needs’, suggesting quotas of some sort would still be imposed.', 'Ed Davey’s party would also scrap the Tories’ ban on migrant care workers bringing partners and children to the UK.', 'On irregular migration, it says it would scrap the Rwanda scheme and ‘invest the savings in clearing the asylum backlog’.', 'To tackle the small boats issue in the Channel, the Lib Dems say they would work closely with Europol and the French authorities to stop smuggling and trafficking gangs.', 'The Lib Dems are also pledging open ‘safe and legal routes to sanctuary for refugees’, including ‘humanitarian travel permits’ allowing asylum seekers to legally travel to the UK and lodge claims on British soil.', 'The Green Party has an asylum and migration policy working group that writes up its ideas in those areas – then puts them all in an easy-to-read format on their website, ideal for political journalists who are writing up an article like this.', 'Under their plans, the Home Office would be split into two parts: the Department of the Interior and the Department of Migration.', 'The Department of Migration would ‘deploy no physical or administrative barriers to prevent or deter’ asylum seekers wanting to come into the UK.', 'It would also treat all claims as admissible ‘regardless of the route by which the applicants have arrived’ and immigration detention would be abolished.', 'Any minimum income requirements for visas would be scrapped, along with any language requirements. Free language classes would be made available ‘to promote and encourage integration’.', 'Residents on a visa would be free to bring over to the UK family members who would usually live with them in their home country, while any undocumented migrants who have been in the country for more than five years would be invited to apply for settled status.', 'Nigel Farage has said the election ‘is and must be the immigration election’.', 'According to the Reform website, the party would ‘stop the boats’ with a six-point plan:', 'However, when Farage was interviewed on the Today programme in June, he suggested point four – about offshore processing – would be scrapped, as he considers it ‘terribly impractical’.', 'Reform has said it would freeze all non-essential immigration, which Farage defines as ‘unskilled’ workers.', 'However, he added that he does not consider care workers – who are usually included in that definition – to be unskilled.', 'Asked if he would be happy to still allow around half a million people to migrate to the UK in order to bring net migration to zero (since around half a million people left the UK last year), the Reform leader told Mishal Husain: ‘It’s far too many, but if that’s what we need and it makes you happy, that’s what we’ll do.’', 'Follow all the latest General Election news in our live blog ']"
79,"['It’s official: Keir Starmer’s Labour Party has won the 2024 General Election with a landslide victory of 362 seats – marking the first time they’ve been in power for 14 years.', 'Ahead of polling day, Keir Starmer and his shadow cabinet revealed what the party would do if they secured the keys to Downing Street – covering everything from immigration and the economy to the state of the NHS and employment rates across the country.', 'The party has been hinting at certain plans for months, and unveiled their six main priorities at a campaign soft-launch event in May.', 'Among their plans are a freeze on the ‘big three’ taxes, a £1.3 billion injection into NHS services, and the creation of a new Border Security Command to tackle criminal gangs operating small boats in the English Channel.', 'Follow the latest General Election news in our daily live blog', 'At the launch event in Manchester, Mr Starmer said: ‘The choice at this election is another five years of chaos under the Conservatives, with people paying £4,800 more on their mortgages, or change with Labour.', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', '‘It’s time to stop the chaos, turn the page and start rebuilding Britain.’', 'Here are some of the main points from the Labour manifesto:', 'Alongside the new Border Security Command, Labour say they will hire more caseworkers to try and clear the considerable asylum backlog.', 'As per the manifesto, a Strategic Defence Review will be launched in the first year of a Labour government, while a ‘path would be set out’ to spending 2.5% of GDP on defence – a point of difference with the Tories, who have pledged to do that by 2030.', 'Martyn’s Law, named after Martyn Hett who died in the 2017 Manchester Arena attack, will also be introduced to increase security measures at public events.', 'Net migration would be reduced with ‘appropriate restrictions on visas, and by linking immigration and skills policy’, and businesses wanting to address skills shortages with foreign workers would trigger a plan to upskill Brits.', 'Labour’s big tax pledge ahead of the manifesto launch was that none of the ‘big three’ would be increased in the next parliament: that means VAT, National Insurance and income tax.', 'They have outlined that corporation tax will be capped at 25% for the entire next parliament.', 'To raise a bit of cash, a Covid Corruption Commissioner would be appointed to recoup the public money that was lost in pandemic-era fraud.', 'A new National Wealth Fund capitalised with £7.3 billion would be established to invest in ports, car factories, carbon capture and more.', 'Brits aged between 18 and 21 would be guaranteed access to training, an apprenticeship or help to find work under Labour plans.', 'Among the measures brought in to help support workers would be the banning of zero-hour contracts; the introduction of basic rights to parental leave, sick pay and protection from unfair dismissal; and the end of fire and rehire.', 'Age bands for minimum wage would be removed so all adults receive the same amount, and a Labour government would ensure it is a ‘genuinely living wage’, according to the manifesto.', 'It would also introduce a landmark Race Equality Act to ‘enshrine in law the full right to equal pay for Black, Asian, and other ethnic minority people’, while disabled people would also get a full right to equal pay.', 'An additional one million potholes would be fixed in English roads, Labour have said, while the roll-out of electric vehicle charge points would be accelerated.', 'The party will also reintroduce the phase-out date of 2030 for new cars with internal combustion engines.', 'Britain’s railways would be brought into public ownership as contracts expire, creating a unified brand of Great British Railways.', 'Communities would be handed control over bus routes and timetables by handing new powers to local leaders.', 'While the Conservative manifesto promised to treble offshore wind by 2030, Labour says it will quadruple it by the same date – while also doubling onshore wind and trebling solar power.', 'It’s currently unclear if that means capacity or a different measure.', 'The party would also aim to get the new Hinkley Point C nuclear power station ‘over the line’.', 'No new licences for oil and gas exploration in the North Sea would be handed out and fracking would be banned for good.', 'Great British Energy, a new publicly owned power company, would co-invest in clean power tech and ‘deploy local energy production’.', 'Up Next', 'Labour has pledged to spend £1.3 billion on NHS reforms, which they say will be funded by closing a tax loophole for non-doms.', 'The reforms, which take up 12 pages of the party’s manifesto, are mainly targeted at reducing wait times for key care.', 'Their headline target is to add 40,000 more NHS operations, scans and appointments in England every week – meaning two million a year.', 'Other goals include doubling the number of CT and MRI scanners.', 'As part of the effort to move to community-based healthcare, thousands more GPs would be trained and face-to-face appointments would be guaranteed for all those who want one.', 'The party also wants to provide 700,000 more urgent dental appointments, while 8,500 more mental health staff would be recruited within a first term in government.', 'Labour also says the National Health Service should move to a ‘Neighbourhood Health Service’, with resources shifted to primary care and community services.']"
81,"['Kyle Clifford, 26, is being treated in a London hospital after he was caught by police in a cemetery in North London yesterday.', 'Police said Clifford is currently in a serious condition and is yet to speak with officers.', 'They added there was no previous contact between Clifford, the women and Hertfordshire Constabulary before the incident.', 'Tributes have been paid to the Mrs Hunt and her daughters by friends following their deaths.', 'Speaking outside St James’ Church on Thursday after a vigil for the women, Mrs Hunt’s childhood friend Lea Holloway said: ‘We grew up together and were pregnant at the same time. This is the stuff nightmares are made of.’', 'This blog is now closed. For the latest updates, visit Metro’s UK page.', 'We are now closing this live blog. To wrap up, here is how the second day has unfolded: ', 'Kyle Clifford, who was found by police yesterday after an extensive manhunt, is in a serious condition in hospital. ', 'A crossbow has been found, and Hertfordshire Police confirmed they had no contact with Clifford or the family before the incident, ', 'Home Security Yvette Cooper said reviewing crossbow laws would become a ‘real priority’. ', 'John Hunt’s long time colleague\xa0Richard Hoiles paid a moving tribute to the victims, saying: ‘It’s impossible to rationalise such a pointless, terrible and heinous act in modern day society.’', 'Sir Keir Starmer has called the murders ‘awful’, promising the Government will look into new laws. ', 'He said: ‘First let me just say how awful this is in relation to crossbows. ', '‘The Home Secretary has announced that she will look at the legislation.', '‘There was no getting away from just how awful this is.’', 'Search officers have retrieved what appeared to be two computer hard drives and two document bags from the house in Enfield.', 'Two officers had to carry one of the hard drives, while another three members of staff bundled the other evidence into a van.', 'Speaking to the Telegraph at the home of Hannah Hunt’s boyfriend Alex Klein, a woman said: ‘My family are all devastated.', '‘We are in mourning, and we need space to grieve for the loss of Carol, Hannah and Louise. This has been truly terrible for all of us.’', 'Alex Klein, who was in a relationship with beautician Hannah Hunt, 28, posted a photo of them together on Instagram with the caption: ‘RIP the love of my life, I will never forget you, stolen from me too soon.’', 'He added: ‘The brightest light in my life. My brave queen for life. Until we meet again… I love you Hansy.’', 'More flowers and tributes have been laid at the police cordon in Ashlyn Close, Bushey.', 'One message reads: ‘RIP three beautiful ladies. John, thinking of you and your family at this very sad and unfortunate time.’', 'An image of a dog had been placed on a card, alongside a note that says ‘RIP Louise. Reggie says thank you for making him look so handsome. RIP Carol and Hannah.’', 'Another says: ‘Louise, Hannah and Carol. The strongest women to ever exist. You’ll always be remembered. I wish I could continue doing life with you Louise my beautiful girlie. I’ll miss you forever.’', 'Detective Superintendent Rob Hall, from the Bedfordshire, Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire Major Crime Unit, said: ‘Our thoughts remain with the victims’ family and loved ones at this devastating and indescribable time. They are being supported by specially trained officers.', '‘This was an unprecedented attack and we are determined to understand the full circumstances of what happened that evening and the events leading up to it. We are wholly committed to seeking justice for the victims and their family.', '‘This investigation, as I’m sure people can imagine, will take time. I’d like to reiterate my sincere thanks to the members of public who contacted us yesterday and helped with our enquiries. We are still appealing for anyone with information in relation to the incident on Tuesday evening in Bushey and activity in Enfield yesterday that could assist us to please contact police directly.', '‘We have set up an information portal where people can submit any information, photos or video footage which they feel could assist us with our investigation.', '‘Local officers will remain in the area today so please do speak to them if you need to.’', 'A Herfordshire Police spokesperson said: ‘Enquiries continue today and as part of this, we have explored if there was any prior police contact between Hertfordshire Constabulary, Kyle Clifford and the victims. ', '‘We can confirm there had been no previous reports made to police.’', 'Bushey triple murder suspect Kyle Clifford is in a ‘serious condition’ in hospital and has yet to speak with officers, Hertfordshire Police said.', 'In an update on Thursday afternoon the force revealed officers have recovered a crossbow.', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'ITV racing commentator Richard Hoiles fought back the tears with a brave, emotional tribute to his colleague John Hunt whose wife and two daughters were killed on Wednesday.', 'The world of racing and sport at large has united to rally around the popular Hunt who has also been a staple part of the BBC’s Olympic coverage over the course of a distinguished career.', 'Hoiles, a long-time colleague of Hunt’s, speaking from this afternoon’s meet at Newmarket, said: ‘It’s impossible to rationalise such a pointless, terrible and heinous act in modern day society.', '‘I’ve known John for 30 years, we’ve started out together and during that time he’s become one of the most liked and respected members of the press room.', '‘Respected because of his fantastic ability, not just in racing but in other sports such as swimming for the BBC in the Olympics.', '‘And liked because of his easy going personality, he is excellent company. If you spend even a moment in his company the odds are the talk will turn to family.’', '“Words just seem hollow and inadequate in such circumstances and all we can try and do is provide some crumb of comfort by trying to exhibit the warmth and respect in which John and his family are held.”We are all thinking of you, John â\x9d¤ï¸\x8f pic.twitter.com/5qsj0REHYQ', 'Remarkably managing to keep his composure, Hoiles added: ‘There’s plenty of people in the press room, I have no idea of their family but we all felt we knew Carole and the girls possibly far better than we actually did.', '‘There was a bit of folklore that after our annual shindig at Christmas 20 odd years ago we’d all retired to the local pub and out would come pictures from John’s wallet of the girls at primary school who he’d share with random bar staff and anyone else who would care to listen.', '‘In the helter skelter of modern life it’s quite easy to lose track of the things we hold dear but John never has.', '‘I know I hugged my kids tighter last night leaving for here, knowing that that simple pleasure has been cruelly snatched away from one of mine and many in the press rooms greatest friends.', '‘Words just seem hollow and inadequate in such circumstances and all we can try do is provide some crumb of comfort by trying to exhibit the warmth and respect in which John and his family are held which will be shown by the many tributes that will be held up and down the country today.’', 'Three close friends of Carol Hunt have said they are ‘together in grief’ after she was killed in a crossbow attack in Bushey.', 'Dionne Smith, 58, Abigail Phillips, 58 and Lea Holloway, 60, told a press gathering outside St James’ Church on Thursday: ‘She was a lovely, lovely person. We can’t believe what happened.', '‘We were a four, and now there’s only three. It doesn’t seem real. We are together in grief.’', 'Lea Holloway, a friend of Carol Hunt, said she feels for the husband and elder daughter of the Bushey crossbow attack victim.', 'Speaking outside St James’ Church on Thursday, she said: ‘They were a lovely family and (the daughters) were lovely girls.', '‘They were making their way through life and their lives have been taken too soon. It’s the thing of nightmares.', '‘I feel for their eldest daughter and John (Hunt). I can’t imagine what it would be like.’', 'A childhood friend of Carol Hunt, who was killed with two of her daughters in a crossbow attack in Bushey on Wednesday, has described her as a ‘beautiful person’.', 'Lea Holloway, 60, said she had known Mrs Hunt since she was 16.', 'Speaking outside St James’ Church on Thursday after a vigil for Mrs Hunt and her daughters, she said: ‘We grew up together and were pregnant at the same time. This is the stuff nightmares are made of.', '‘I was there the night she met John (Hunt). It was in a nightclub in Hemel Hempstead. We went out together, went to birthdays and events.', '‘It’s very difficult. She was the nicest, kindest, sweetest person you could ever meet. A beautiful person.’', 'The Rector of Bushey, who is hosting a vigil at St James’ Church on Thursday morning, said the deaths of three women has brought the community together as ‘one big family’.', 'Father David Stevenson said: ‘Today is very much about supporting the community.', '‘This might sound strange but (this tragedy) has actually strengthened the community and brought it together, which is a wonderful thing.', '‘We realise that we are just one big family.’', 'Colleagues of John Hunt have said they are ‘heartbroken’ for the BBC Radio 5 Live racing commentator after three members of his family were killed in a crossbow attack.', 'Speaking on BBC Radio 2’s The Zoe Ball Breakfast Show, journalist Mike Williams interrupted his sports update to speak about Mr Hunt’s loss.', 'He said: ‘Can I just echo your words from (Zoe) earlier in the show by sending all love, condolences and support to our much-loved BBC Sport colleague John Hunt after the unspeakable tragedy concerning his family that was in the news yesterday.', '‘John is a wonderful man and we of course send him all our love.’', 'Ball said earlier: ‘I must say, everyone at the BBC (is) heartbroken and deeply shocked at the news.', '‘Our thoughts and prayers are with John Hunt. Mark Chapman, his friend, paid (an) emotional tribute yesterday on BBC (Radio) 5 Live – we are holding you in our heart, John.’', 'On Wednesday, before England beat the Netherlands in the Euro 2024 semi-final in Dortmund, Radio 5 Live commentator Chapman appeared to break down on air.', 'He said: ‘Good evening from Germany, we have a football match to bring you tonight and we will do, and we will start our build-up to it shortly.', '‘But this has been a heartbreaking day. John Hunt is our colleague and our friend, not just to the current 5 Live Sport team, but all of those who’ve worked here with him over the past 20 years.', '‘And also to all of you who have enjoyed his superb commentaries. So on behalf of everybody connected to 5 Live Sport, our love and thoughts and support our with John and his family.’', 'The football was amazing last night and we are so blessed to have brilliant commentators in the UK.John Hunt is one of the best and his world was ripped apart yesterday when his wife and daughters were murdered. Mark Chapman knows himself how brutal life can be at times. Giveâ\x80¦ pic.twitter.com/KHAtmdLkNb', 'Sharing the clip of Chapman’s emotional speech, former BBC Breakfast presenter Dan Walker wrote on X: ‘The football was amazing last night and we are so blessed to have brilliant commentators in the UK.', '‘John Hunt is one of the best and his world was ripped apart yesterday when his wife and daughters were murdered.', '‘Mark Chapman knows himself how brutal life can be at times. Give yourself a moment to listen to how he introduced the football after the news about his colleague and friend had just been reported in the bulletin before he started.’', 'Chapman’s wife Sara died in 2020 after being diagnosed with cancer.', 'Triple-murder suspect Kyle Clifford’s former employer has said they have had no further communication with him since he left the company in July last year.', 'Fire and security installation company Amthal, based in St Albans, Hertfordshire, said in a statement: ‘Kyle Clifford was employed from February 22, 2023, to July 20, 2023.', '‘Since he departed from Amthal in July 2023, we have had no further communication with Mr Clifford.’', 'The colleagues of Bushey crossbow murder victim Hannah Hunt have paid tribute to the ‘fantastic therapist’.', 'In a post on Facebook, The Anti-Ageing Clinic based in Radlett, Hertfordshire, said it was with ‘deep regret and sadness’ that they learned of the ‘horrific murder on Tuesday night of our skin therapist Hannah’.', 'The tribute continued: ‘She was a fantastic therapist and clients loved her.', '‘We send our condolences and prayers to her Dad, sister and family.', '‘She was very much a part of our team. Please bear with us at this terrible time.’', 'Further searches have taken place at a house in Rendlesham Road, Enfield, on Thursday morning in relation to the deaths of three women in Bushey.', 'Police staff wearing gloves and face masks were seen outside the property which was first searched on Wednesday.', 'Triple murder suspect Kyle Clifford is thought to have left the British Army in 2022.', 'According to the Daily Mail, previously served in the Queen’s Dragoon Guards for a short time before dropping out having failed to impress superiors.', 'A former army boss has now told The Sun Clifford was ‘immature for his age and had a bit of a chip on his shoulder’.', 'He added: ‘He struggled to grasp basic military concepts but managed to reach the standard to pass out from training.', '‘After passing out he joined the Household Cavalry Regiment but I’m unsure how his career developed from there. I hear he was working in private security so would indicate that he is no longer in the military.’']"
82,"['As soon as I read the news that Yvette Cooper, Britain’s new Home Secretary, had announced plans to crack down on businesses such as car washes and beauty salons to stem illegal working in the UK, I had a flashback to an unforgettable moment.', 'As a partner in human rights at Leigh Day Solicitors, it’s something I haven’t been able to stop thinking about this week.', 'Back in 2018 and 2019, I used to visit a hair salon in Streatham in South London to get my hair braided.', 'The salon was run by a fabulous woman of African heritage and to pay the exorbitant rent, she let out corners of the shop to people who provided other services – including nail extensions, eyelashes, eyebrow threading, and waxing.', 'I didn’t always appreciate the noisy and untidy place, but there was joy, too – from the gossip and the unsolicited advice about improving my appearance or relationship, to the music and people watching (especially those donning mercilessly, and in my mind, ridiculous, long eyelashes and nails).\xa0', 'It was a place of escape and one where I felt safe.', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'Except, I happened to be there one day when immigration enforcement turned up.\xa0', 'There were five officers in black uniforms, but one remained in the van parked up outside.\xa0', 'While they did say that they were from Immigration Enforcement quite quickly, it was their initial burst into the shop which was startling,', 'Everyone froze as the operation was one of true terror. It could easily have been an armed robbery, such was the menacing command to stay where we were.', 'The immigration officers went straight for the nail technician who was of Vietnamese heritage.', 'They asked her what her immigration status was and she pulled out a Biometric Residence Card. They then tapped into a handheld machine and confirmed she was safe – it revealed that she was lawfully in the UK.\xa0', 'They then turned to the eyebrow threader, who looked at me nervously. I tried to return a reassuring glance.\xa0', 'She’d arrived from India many years ago and had actually once asked me some questions about the immigration rules.', 'She was on a family visa route with her husband and it appeared that she had submitted some sort of extension application for further leave, but had not had an answer yet.\xa0', 'I offered help, but she said she had a lawyer dealing with her case.\xa0For a moment, I wondered if she’d be OK. I let out a sigh of relief as she also had her Biometric Residence Card in her purse.', 'The owner said that it was the third time immigration enforcement had turned up and she was fed up', 'The officers’ final stop was the three African heritage staff; they were all British citizens. One of these women – the owner – was made to go to her flat above the business to retrieve evidence of her British status.', 'One burly red-faced officer muttered something that sounded like they’d had false intelligence.', 'No customers were questioned. I watched everything unfold curiously, but angrily.', 'As a lawyer, I asked if this was all necessary, but I refrained from saying much and I’d only do so if someone was being detained for not checking out.\xa0\xa0', 'I would have offered to provide information on the help available to them, but it wasn’t necessary.\xa0', 'The immigration officers not directly involved in questioning people also watched on angrily, before leaving empty-handed.', 'When they’d driven off, the only white member of staff – doing eyelashes – looked ashen.\xa0', 'She said she was unsure of her immigration status, as her father had told her he’d sorted it, but she was worried. She was Albanian.', 'She was the only person working in the place not to be questioned, which was not lost on us – including white customers waiting for nails and eyelashes.', 'Surprisingly, the workers laughed it off and it was business as usual. But not for the owner, who said that it was the third time immigration enforcement had turned up and she was fed up.', 'She felt targeted and harassed so wanted to close the business. Sadly, she did eventually do that, though I don’t know if this was the reason.', 'In the next few weeks, the Home Secretary will order similar operations across countless car, beauty and food businesses.', 'Without a doubt, there are issues in these industries. Trafficking and modern slavery are evils I deal with in my professional role as a human rights lawyer – truthfully, I’ve worked with many women from nail bars, but not with anyone from a car wash.\xa0\xa0', 'I’ve even worked with women trafficked and forced into sex work.', 'As a result of the work that I do, I’ve long worried about some of the men and women I see in both the nail shops and car washes I walk past.\xa0', 'Like previous policies, I believe this new one won’t stem illegal migration', 'I also know that large numbers of these workers have regularised their stay in the UK and, if they started out as trafficked victims, have managed to escape this evil and live their lives on their own terms.', 'But the exercise afoot seems unconcerned with whether people have been trafficked, or of their working conditions or welfare.', 'What will happen is that British people, settled people, people with leave to remain – many Black and brown people – will be harassed and terrorised in an egregious and racialised way.\xa0', 'And this will all be in front of petrified and suspicious customers, causing long-term harm to legitimate businesses.', 'The thing is, the Home Secretary is right that most people in the UK want to see a properly managed asylum system where Britain helps those fleeing persecution.\xa0', 'But she is wrong to think that the country wants a resumption of either the policies of the Hostile Environment or its successor, the Compliant Environment – a set of rules aimed at deterring illegal migration.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'It was first coined by Labour, but the Conservative government implemented it through projects like Operation Vaken which, back in 2013, had vans telling people to ‘go home’ parading around areas with high numbers of Black and brown people, and other measures which required people like doctors, landlords, employers, check up on the status of people they were dealing with.\xa0', 'Labour’s mandate is for a compassionate and well-run approach to dealing with those seeking asylum.', 'Like the previous policies and the operations underpinning them, I believe this new one won’t stem illegal migration. Sure, there’ll be a few offenders paraded before cameras, but the real story will be that Black and brown communities across the UK will be victimised.', 'And this will be done against the backdrop of the National Audit Office’s report of June 2020, which revealed that the Home Office could not provide evidence of whether its Hostile or Compliant policies worked.', 'In my view, the Home Secretary’s operation will impact more on people legitimately in the UK, than it will curb illegal migration – just as the victims of the Windrush Scandal discovered.\xa0', 'Thousands of people in the Windrush generation were victims of the Hostile Environment Policy. They were legally in the country, and the policy was about stemming illegal migration.', 'It’s why I don’t want anyone to have to go through the indignity of what I witnessed.']"
83,"['The period following the\xa0horrific killings of three little girls at\xa0a dance class should be a time of national mourning.\xa0', 'A chance to allow investigations to be carried out and justice served,\xa0followed by introspection at what conditions\xa0and circumstances\xa0could have made such unspeakable brutality against children possible.', 'Instead, it has\xa0been hijacked as an opportunity to sow discord, spread hate and ultimately further the Islamophobic agenda of a section of society who view Muslims\xa0like me\xa0as subhuman.', 'As a mother, I am in deep pain for the suffering of those three families – but at the same time, as a visibly Muslim woman, I’ve never felt more unsafe in the country I call home.\xa0', 'Soon after Monday’s attack,\xa0a 17-year-old who cannot be named for legal reasons was arrested.  ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The\xa0police and media outlets are limited in what they can say about the suspect, and so\xa0disinformation started to circulate on social media.\xa0', 'The name Ali Al-Shakati\xa0which, as of this morning, is still trending on X, began to spread like wildfire as being connected to the incident.\xa0', 'It was depressing and frightening to see accounts\xa0with major followings – primarily with rightwing or anti-immigrant agendas –\xa0sharing\xa0fake news about the identity of the\xa0alleged\xa0attacker, including the entirely fabricated fact that he was a Muslim\xa0named Ali Al-Shakati, an illegal immigrant who had arrived by boat to the UK last year and that this was an Islamist act of terror.\xa0', 'This was despite\xa0that early on in the case, the police clarified that this incident was not\xa0believed to be\xa0an act of terror and that the person in custody was born in Cardiff.\xa0', 'Furthermore, yesterday, the police issued a statement saying ‘A name has been shared on social media in connection with the suspect in the incident in Southport. This name is incorrect and we would urge people not to speculate on details of the incident while the investigation is ongoing’. ', 'That didn’t stop the anti-immigrant agendas, nor the far-right rioting that took place last night.\xa0', 'Union-Jack-displaying anonymous accounts portraying themselves as proud British patriots sarcastically posted phrases like ‘religion of peace’ (in reference to the fabricated Islamic identity of the\xa0suspect) and called for Brits to rise up against the Muslim ‘invasion’ taking place.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'And so\xa0Islamophobic hysteria that has gripped parts of the nation, determined to lay a crime entirely unconnected to the community at our door.', 'The aftermath of these attacks should be focused on the little girls who have lost their lives and the others still fighting for theirs in hospital.\xa0', 'Instead, the far-right have made it about them – and hatred – once again.\xa0', 'I’ve spoken up in the past about the unfair expectation that when one Muslim does something wrong, all of us are burdened with the pressure to apologise and face communal blame for problems that exist within every group in society.', 'But what has unfolded in Southport since Monday’s attack is proof that even when Muslims are not to blame, even when we haven’t done anything wrong, we are still the enemy.\xa0', 'Of course, even if the suspect had been Muslim, it would be no excuse for rioting against an entire community – or the sort of virulent Islamophobia that has escalated since.', 'But either way, it was fake news, and on Tuesday\xa0we saw just how dangerous it can be when such\xa0discord spreads online and spills\xa0over into real life.', 'A peaceful vigil of\xa0hundreds\xa0who gathered to remember the dead and injured children and their families was hijacked by those with an anti-Muslim agenda.', 'Reported to be primarily members of the English Defence League,\xa0and with locals saying they had come from far out of town,\xa0the rioters chanted ‘Allah, Allah, who the f**k is Allah?’ and ‘English till I die’.\xa0', 'The far right protestors gathered around a Southport mosque, throwing items at the building, setting cars and wheelie bins on fire, breaking into shops and clashing with riot police,\xa0leaving over 50 officers injured.\xa0', 'At a time when three families are dealing with the unspeakable loss of their precious little girls, it feels unfitting to be focusing on anyone else’s experiences.\xa0', 'But what has unfolded since the attack cannot be ignored either – and it is indicative of a lot more than just a fractured community dealing with loss.', 'What we have seen is the direct result of an atmosphere of normalised Islamophobia that has become systemic within British society and\xa0parts of our politics and media.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'We cannot separate the scenes of far-right thugs attacking a mosque last night from the way\xa0politicians spew anti-immigrant – and directly anti-Muslim – agendas.\xa0', 'It is impossible to see what has unfolded as anything but the direct result of Islamophobia going\xa0unchecked for too long.\xa0', 'Is\xa0it any wonder then that all we need is a fake Muslim-sounding name to spark riots?', 'The failure of sites like X to curb anti-Muslim hate by allowing figures like Tommy Robinson to spout Islamophobia to millions without a filter has played a part too.\xa0', 'As a Muslim online, I am bombarded daily with racism to the point where I have come to expect it but, the events in Southport prove that this isn’t just the work of anonymous keyboard warriors.\xa0', 'It’s not just about offensive tweets – last night shows that Islamophobia, when allowed to fester, has\xa0real life safety implications for communities like mine.', 'All of this has crystallised into an atmosphere in which Muslims don’t even have to have done anything wrong anymore to be vilified.\xa0', 'The mere fact that we exist is enough to spark anger and violence from those who think our presence is threatening and anti-British.', 'Ultimately, the fact that thousands have been willing to hijack the mourning of an entire community,\xa0and the deaths of three precious children,\xa0to further their own bigotry and hate is a sign of how far we have descended into blanket, entrenched Islamophobia in Britain.\xa0', 'And while our leading figures like Prime Minister Keir Starmer say all the right things about Southport rioters facing the ‘full brunt of the law’, it is vital that we don’t let\xa0wider British society\xa0off the hook for the pressure cooker of hate and marginalisation that\xa0has been allowed to develop over recent\xa0years.\xa0', 'I was shocked and appalled by last night’s events in Southport.\xa0', 'How anyone can look at the devastation and grief caused by these deadly attacks and think ‘now is the time to spread disinformation and hate’ is beyond me.\xa0', 'Because not only does it do harm to Muslims everywhere, but it takes attention away from Bebe King, Elsie Dot Stancombe, Alice Dasilva Aguiar, who had their lives cruelly ripped away from them.']"
84,"['A fake news website with links to Russia helped spread lies about the Southport stabbings which led to a series of violent riots throughout the UK.', 'On Monday a 17-year-old boy was arrested over the killing of three young girls attending a Taylor Swift-themed dance class in Southport, in a mass stabbing rampage which saw nine others critically injured.', 'Follow our latest coverage of the Southport attacks here:', 'The suspect has been charged and was named in court as Axel Rudakubana after a judge lifted reporting restictions which would have granted him anonymity until he turned 18.', 'However, in the immediate aftermath of the killings a social media account named Channel3 Now, which masquerades as an American news network, published a false claim that the alleged murderer was an asylum seeker called Ali Al-Shakati who was ‘on the MI6 watch list’ and ‘known to mental health services’.', 'The claims were immediately amplified by Russian state media and far-right influencers Tommy Robinson and Andrew Tate, who claimed the suspect was an ‘illegal migrant’ who had recently entered the country on a small boat.', 'Channel3 News’ initial post was viewed nearly two million times before it was eventually deleted, with the sites ‘Editor’ posting an AI-generated apology on their website in which they claim the team responsible for the post had been ‘sacked’.', 'So widespread was the false claim that Merseyside Police even took the highly unusual step of releasing a statement claiming the name pushed by Channel3 news was ‘incorrect’ and that the suspect was born in Cardiff.', 'But that didn’t stop hundreds of far-right hooligans hijacking a vigil for the victims in Southport, attacking police and chanting ‘English til I die’ before trashing the town centre and setting a police van on fire.', 'More than 1,000 people descended on Westminster last night as the rioting intensified, amidst fears things could escalate further.', 'This week’s violence was not started by Channel 3 news, but their misinformation did play a role in amplifying the far-right response.', 'Following an investigation by the Mail, it was revealed that Channel3 Now, which claims to be based in the US, actually started life 11 years ago as a Russian YouTube channel.', 'Its first video, posted in 2013, depicted a number of Russian men rally-driving in the snow in Izhevsk, a city about 750 miles east of Moscow.\xa0', 'The drivers named in the videos were later revealed to have connections to the country’s defence and IT industries, including a man who appears to be a former KGB operative who has since served in Russia’s parliament.', 'Channel3 Now then lay inactive for six years before it reemerged in 2019, posting a series of scattershot news pieces including a story about a tiger being beaten to death and a match report from the Manchester City Women’s team.', 'The organisation has since rebranded itself on a number of occasions, routinely changing its name to aliases such as ‘Fox3 News’ and Fox3 Now’ in an attempt to mimic legitimate news organisations.', 'Up Next', 'Last June it set up a website, which has been accused of sharing ‘racially motivated click-bait’.', 'Although Channel3 claims to be based in the US, it is registered with an online hosting company in Lithuania, and uses privacy features to hide its owner’s identity.', 'The first mention of the Southport suspect’s false name appears to have been shared on Twitter by a well-known UK anti-lockdown activist, around five hours after the stabbings took place.', 'They were repeated by Channel3 just two minutes later, and then picked up by Russian state broadcaster Russia Today.', 'Although Channel3 deleted the tweet containing the false name, RT kept it on their website, adding an Editor’s Note which said ‘The outlet has later retracted the claim.’', 'Before the election, Conservative security advisor Stephen McPartland suggested Russia could be behind a social media misinformation campaign designed to inflame tensions in the UK.', 'A report by McPartland, which Rishi Sunak pledged to implement but was left on the shelf following the change in government, called for a substantial review of cybersecurity and social media misinformation.', 'He said: ‘Disinformation to undermine democracy is a huge part of the Russian playbook and just in May the British government expelled a Russian defence attache and accused the Russian Federal Security Service [FSB] of systemic malign cyberattacks aimed at undermining democracy.', '‘The tragic events in Southport are being mobilised by hostile states to stir up hatred and division instead of letting the community grieve. We need much more cyber-resilience throughout our whole society and economy to defend democracy.’']"
85,"['A train station stabbing left Liverpool’s Muslim community on edge today, even before far-right protesters gathered outside a city mosque.', 'Megan Rimmer, 36, was getting the train back from Liverpool with her daughters when she saw the attack in Blundellsands & Crosby train station just after 2pm.', 'As she wheeled her buggy off the platform, a man turned around and stabbed a man, believed to be Muslim, who had been walking out of the station behind him.', '‘They were both going through the same gate and the white guy just turned around and lunged at him with a knife’, she told Metro.', '‘He put his hand out and the knife went into his hand.’', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'She added: ‘He was just stood there with blood pouring out of his hand. It looked really bad. There was blood everywhere.’', 'After barricading herself and her daughters in the station waiting room until she was certain the attacker had run away, Megan emerged to help the man.', 'He was still in shock as she removed her keffiyeh, wrapped it around his hand and told him to apply pressure to the wound.', 'Blood was left on the station floor more than an hour later when emergency services had left and Megan returned.', 'The whole ordeal horrified Megan, who said: ‘I’m just sad and scared. It was really, really upsetting.’', 'A British Transport Police spokesperson confirmed there had been an attack, saying: ‘Officers attended Blundellsands and Crosby railway station at 2.45pm on Friday August 2 to reports of a stabbing.', '‘Merseyside Police were also in attendance and the victim was treated by paramedics on scene for a minor hand injury.', '‘The suspect, who left the area after the incident, was described as late 40s and stocky build, wearing a dark grey hooded tracksuit.’', 'The attack has been particularly alarming for Liverpool’s Muslim community, who were already bracing themselves to be targets of a far-right protest tonight.', 'Organisers had been describing it as a ‘major clash’ in graphics shared on social media ahead of the protest outside the Abdullah Quilliam Mosque.', '‘It is quite worrying’, Lila Tamea, a local hijabi woman who joined the counterprotest, told Metro.', '‘Especially with the stabbing in Crosby today. Hearing that took place just hours before this, I was quite worried.’', 'For a long time, Liverpool had a reputation for never letting the far-right march through the city.', 'Anti-fascist demonstrators had famously stopped them from even leaving train stations.', 'Various attempts saw them pelted with banana skins and trapped in luggage rooms or even a pub, often to the Benny Hill theme tune.', 'But the city’s anti-racist activists got a shock last year when a riot erupted outside a hotel housing asylum seekers in Kirkby, just outside Liverpool.', 'Far from their usually sense of victory, they found themselves trapped and outnumbered as rioters burned vehicles, threw projectiles and shouted abuse.', 'After seeing riots spread from Southport to Hartlepool, London, Manchester and Aldershot this week, the local community feared a repeat on last year.', 'The unrest was sparked after the fatal stabbing in nearby Southport on Monday, but it’s taken a distinctly anti-immigrant and anti-Muslim tone.', 'Mosques, refugees and people who ‘look Asian’ have been attacked, and even Sunderland tonight saw cars and a police station set on fire.', 'But that’s not how it went down in Liverpool.', 'Roughly 50 far-right protesters were outnumbers by the nearly 300 anti-racists who arrived to defend the Abdullah Quilliam Mosque.', 'The first ever opened in the UK, back in 1889, its Victorian founders found themselves pelted with stones and manure as they left.', 'But it also has a history of opening its doors to anyone, even those who disagree, according to Adam Kelwick, who said they would be handing out food and drink to anyone who attended.', 'No far-right protesters took them up on that offer of refreshments or conversation, but the anti-racist counterprotesters did.', 'Lila said: ‘The past couple of nights, it’s been difficult not knowing what to expect. Obviously I’m a visible hijabi Muslim woman in Liverpool, I commute, I get the train.', '‘I know Scousers, and I know Liverpool is quite an anti-racist city, it’s quite a leftist city as well, so I think the scenes tonight are to be expected.', '‘It’s been nice to see, and I did expect quite a good turn-out, but I did expect a lot more of the far-right to come, so I do think the counter-demo really did its job in deterring them.', '‘I definitely think the far-right would have been more emboldened [if there was no counter-demo]. They were still shouting despite the numbers we’ve seen here today, we’ve got 200 and there were about 50 far-right.', '‘Even then, they were quite emboldened to shout despite the police and the amount of counter-protesters, but they just look very silly.’']"
86,"['Up Next', 'Far-right rioters have targeted a Holiday Inn in Rotherham, with footage appearing to show a group attempting to set the building alight with people still inside.', 'Police in the Yorkshire town have been overwhelmed by the volume of people surrounding the hotel, which houses asylum seekers.', 'In videos shared online, the mob can be seen throwing bricks and chairs at officers with riot shields, before smashing windows and entering the building while chanting ‘Yorkshire, Yorkshire’.', 'Follow the latest news from the UK riots on our live blog', 'Further clips show a flaming bin against an open window in an apparent attempt to start a fire. It was later extinguished.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'People could be seen looking down from windows on the upper floors of the hotel as crowds surrounded it.', 'At least one police officer wearing riot gear was carried away injured before reinforcements arrived.', 'Home Secretary Yvette Cooper condemned the violence in a post on X, saying: ‘The criminal, violent attack on a hotel housing asylum seekers in Rotherham is utterly appalling. ', '‘Deliberately setting fire to a building with people known to be inside.’', 'She said the local police have ‘full Government support for the strongest action against those responsible’.', 'Up Next', 'Activist Brendan Cox, the husband of murdered MP Jo Cox, wrote on social media: ‘The scenes in Rotherham aren’t a protest, they aren’t even a far right riot, they are an ongoing attempt to murder the men, women & children inside by burning them alive.’', 'Members of the mob, who waved Union flags and the St George’s Cross, taunted police in the car park of the hotel.', 'Unrest continues to spread in towns and cities across the country, following the deadly mass stabbing at a children’s dance class in Southport on Monday.', 'Greater Manchester Police said a Section 34 dispersal notice has been authorised covering Bolton, where a protest is expected later, until 10pm on Sunday.', 'Section 60 notices have been introduced by Merseyside Police in Liverpool and Southport, giving officers greater stop-and-search powers.', 'There have also been violent clashes with police in Middlesbrough, Belfast, Manchester, Bristol, Blackpool and Stoke-on-Trent.', 'In Hull earlier today, racists pulled an Asian man from his car and shouted ‘p***’ at him before smashing up the vehicle.']"
87,"['The wife of a Tory councillor has been arrested for inciting racial hatred after calling for hotels housing migrants to be burnt to the ground.', '‘Mass deportation now, set fire to all the f****** hotels full of the b******* for all I care, and while you’re at it take the treacherous government and politicians with them,’ Lucie Connolly wrote in a now deleted post on X.', '‘If that makes me racist, so be it,’ she added.', 'Ms Connolly, who works as a childminder in Northampton, later blamed ‘a moment of extreme outrage and emotion’ for her outburst, when she was acting on ‘false and malicious’ information.', 'Follow our live blog for the latest updates on the far-right riots', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Northamptonshire Police confirmed a 41-year-old woman had been arrested on suspicion of inciting racial hatred, and remains in custody.', 'Ms Connolly’s husband Raymond, who is vice chair of the committee on adult social care at West Northamptonshire Council, responded by telling the BBC his wife cannot be racist because she ‘looks after Somalian and Bangladeshi kids’.', 'He told the broadcaster his wife made one ‘stupid, spur of the moment tweet out of frustration and quickly deleted it’.', '‘She’s a good person and she’s not racist,’ he added.', 'The offending post came just hours after the stabbing rampage in Southport on July 29 which saw three children aged six, seven and nine killed while attending a Taylor Swift themed dance class.', 'The attack sparked a slew of misinformation that spread like wildfire online,causing a further escalation in far-right violence.', 'In a post on X last night, Mrs Connolly said: ‘I am someone who cares enormously about children and the similarity between those beautiful children who were so brutally attacked, and my own daughter, overwhelmed me with horror, but I should not have expressed that horror in the way that I did.', '‘This has been an invaluable lesson for me in realising how wrong and inaccurate things appearing on social media can be.’', 'The childminder’s account has since gone private, but the Mail reported several posts of hers- including one where she says she has ‘seen noone trying to organise or spread any kind of hate or discrimination’- were still online as of last night.', 'She continues: ‘Imagine if two tier Keir told me I had to stay in my home due to riots. That threat is very real right now.’', 'In a post on X, childcare listing site Childcare.co.uk, said an Ofsted registered childminder who had an advert on its platform had been suspended following information received about a highly inappropriate tweet.']"
89,"['Anti-racism protesters have rallied across the country following a week of far-right riots, putting on an inspiring display of unity.', 'Police were braced for widespread violence last night.Shops were boarded up and immigration centres closed after rumours spread on social media the disorder first seen in Southport would spread even further across the country.', 'But only a handful of arrests were reported as peaceful protesters turned up in their thousands to defend their communities and put an end to rampant violence.', 'In Brighton a samba band played for the crowd and a team of drag queens were positioned outside the station, ready to welcome any rioters.', 'Follow our live blog for all the latest updates from the far-right riots', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Later in the evening, a small group found themselves surrounded by thousands of counter protesters and forced to shelter against a building.', 'Dozens of police officers had to push through anti-racist demonstrators to allow the small number of far-right protesters to escape the crowd.', 'In London, hundreds gathered in Walthamstow, where chants of ‘whose streets? our streets!’ and ‘free Palestine’ could be heard.', 'Many people held signs reading ‘refugees welcome’, ‘no space for racism, end fascism’ and ‘strength in diversity’.']"
90,"['Many of the people rioting in towns and cities in England and Northern Ireland claim that their violent acts are their way of ‘protecting’ Britain’s children. ', 'It’s a confusing paradox, but one that must be understood to get to the bottom of what has happened.', '‘Protecting’ women and children is central to nationalist rhetoric. This is why the Southport attack that killed three young girls proved an instant trigger for the violence that subsequently unfolded. ', 'The death of three small girls struck to the heart of ultra-nationalist, anti-immigrant narratives about the threat posed by immigrant men.', 'Even though the teenager arrested over the attack is not an immigrant, misinformation was spreading that he was. And those rioting outside hotels housing migrants and mosques are presenting themselves as taking action against the threatening people inside.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'White supremacy is founded on the narrative of a specifically gendered and racialised threat – the threat from ‘other’ men to ‘native’ women and children. ', 'This idea is the undercurrent to the Nazi slogan kinder küche, kirche (children, kitchen, church) which situates women inside and men outside the home. It’s explicit in the so-called ’14 words’, the most famous slogan in white nationalism, which urges followers to ‘secure a future’ for white children.', 'It is a threat that requires a particular masculine response: violence. This is what nations, and the far right, have long been built on.', 'During research for my book Extreme Britain (2023), I attended far-right demonstrations and talked to both men and women about why they were there.', 'My conclusion was that, although individual reasons differed, extreme activism was focused on achieving masculine status, expressed in different ways.', 'Those associated with far-right group Britain First, for example, idealised military, disciplined Christian masculinity. The group itself adopts military symbols in its messaging. ', 'Its ‘security’ staff wear paramilitary style uniforms. Members carry nationalist flags with military insignia, and demonstrators march to drums. The group is infamous for so-called ‘mosque invasions’, where they carry the cross into mosques.', 'The culture of English Defence League (EDL) protest is different. They adopt the norms of the football grounds – such as drinking and chanting – and the casual violence of football hooliganism. ', 'To them, the EDL co-founder Tommy Robinson (real name Stephen Yaxley Lennon) represented a particular expression of robust, ‘working-class’ (their label) identity, that cannot be tamed, despite perceptions of state attempts to silence him. ', 'People I met chanted his name, posed for selfies with him and had his face on homemade T-shirts.', 'Following the Southport attack, Robinson told men that they need to prepare to become a ‘dedicated, fit, healthy, ready, British resistance’.', 'Robinson began the video in which he made this statement by telling viewers he had just completed a workout – emulating something misogynist influencer Andrew Tate is known for. ', 'Tate’s entire messaging is aimed at young men and is one long sales pitch of aspirational ‘warrior-businessman’ masculinity, in the face of a culture of emasculation led by liberal government and empowered women.', 'Up Next', 'While not explicitly far right, Tate’s messaging calls on the western ‘common man’ to wake up, and he has shared far right propaganda, such as great replacement theory memes.', 'For Tate the message begins at home: ‘If you don’t feel like a king in your house, how are you to feel like a king anywhere else?’ In his view, because western men are so downtrodden by a feminism that has destroyed the nuclear family unit, they do nothing to protect them. ', 'Tate regards himself as an alpha male, the superlative warrior and teacher. In a Rumble video entitled ‘Collapse’, published three days after the Southport attack, Tate said it was ‘men like me’ that would stand up to someone attacking ‘little girls’ – claiming politicians would walk on by.', 'Elizabeth Pearson, Programme Lead MSc Terrorism and Counter-Terrorism Studies, Royal Holloway University of London', 'This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.', 'For both Robinson and Tate, the response to one act of male violence – the Southport attack – is to ready other men to fight back. ', 'Online influencers made the attacker’s ethnicity the focus of the attack, not any other characteristics, such as, for example, his maleness, in order to justify further violence.', 'But the real problem here is male violence – across Britain, as in the Southport attack, and this needs to be confronted. ', 'Yes, women have been visible at protests and riots, and women can of course ‘do’ far-right masculinity too. But they have so far been in the minority.', 'Confronting male violence with more male violence, believing in the worth of male violence, and giving it status, as Tate or Robinson do, will only perpetuate a cycle. There needs to be an alternative.', 'Some men are already trying, taking a positive masculinities message to social media and workshops, to try to counter the toxicity of Tate and others like him. ', 'Male gender scholars are also working with peace activists in conflict zones to reconfigure how we understand masculinity, and how to promote masculinities that can resist political violence, rather than resist other men.', 'But as masculinities author and scholar David Duriesmith notes, men first have to acknowledge that gender shapes their lives as much as it shapes women’s.', 'Extremist gender norms are not produced in a vacuum. Ultra-nationalism is possible because we accept the validity of nationalist norms – that men should defend women, that attacks on women emasculate ‘their’ men. ', 'Tate thrives because men like his messages. If we want to tackle Robinson, or Tate, or stop the epidemic of men’s violence against women and girls, we need a community of men, not a manosphere, ready to rescript gender roles and gender relationships. ', 'These men cannot afford to remain simply women’s allies, but need to be proactive, as role models.']"
91,"['Scroll through social media right now and there’s no doubt you’ll come across discourse around immigrants and minorities.', 'Of course, you’ll see hateful, xenophobic and racist remarks in the wake of terrifying far-right riots in the UK this week. But you’ll also see many people trying to defend minorities.', '‘Our society wouldn’t be half as functional without immigrants doing the jobs that proud English people won’t do.’ ‘Just one day without ethnic minorities and you’d see how society fails to function.’ ‘Imagine the state of the NHS without immigrants working in it.’', 'While these posts are well-intentioned, they feed into a dangerous narrative – defining someone’s worth by their contribution to society. Which, in my mind, is the problematic and harmful trap of the ‘model minority’ trope.', 'The model minority is someone who is considered a ‘good immigrant’. They will achieve a high economic status and be immune to the disenfranchisement felt by other immigrants. They won’t complain, they will work hard and study hard.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'It’s something my family knows all too well.', 'In the 1970s, my parents left India and came to the UK. They worked multiple jobs to make their way through parenting in a foreign land and they were given the impression that Britain was a land of opportunity.', 'I was born in the UK and I used to wonder why my family would push for me to study hard and become a doctor, lawyer or engineer. Or why it was always the joke in British Asian films.\xa0', 'As a child, I would declare ‘I’m going to be creative!’ to my worried parents – not really clocking the concern in their eyes.', 'It took me longer than I care to admit that I finally came to realise why – the model minority myth had filled their minds because, quite frankly, they had no choice but to abide by it.', 'When my parents first immigrated, verbal abuse was a regular thing. My dad even recently messaged me about coming up against the National Front\xa0(but he wouldn’t say more).', 'And so my mum always said to me ‘just keep your head down and blend in’. It wasn’t because she didn’t want me to thrive. It’s because of fear.', 'So what’s the seemingly perfect type of minority?', 'As the editor of the award-winning anthology The Good Immigrant, Nikesh Shukla said: ‘Here are ways you can become a good immigrant: win a televised baking show, win a gold in the Olympics, write a Christmas number one, don’t say that you’ve experienced casual racism.’', 'This is exactly what we see in how our worth is perceived. Although these people are not immune to racism, they are held to a standard that all minorities ‘should’ achieve, otherwise… ‘go back home’.', 'So the reason my parents wanted me to get a job as a model minority is because that’s what the value of our existence has always been. My value – they feared – would diminish as a creative person, and I would be open to mistreatment.', 'This fear wasn’t plucked out of nowhere. It is British history.', 'From 1948 – in post-war Britain – the Government needed help rebuilding the economy and filling labour shortages. So they invited people from Caribbean countries to work at the brand new NHS, and as drivers or cleaners.\xa0', 'It was a time that people were used as resources to ‘fill’ economic gaps. These immigrants arrived on HMT Empire Windrush, and we have been fighting for their rights since.', 'Unfortunately, since then, the way immigrants have been viewed, are as objects of value.', 'Former Home Secretary Priti Patel’s point-based immigration system is a clear example of this. She brought in a plan that assigned points per specific skills and qualifications – visas will only be awarded to those who gain enough.', 'As well as being given points, we’re told how many are allowed into this country, for labour that they cannot fill with their own people. Like a Tesco clubcard, immigrants have been reduced to caricatures of humans.', 'But since the far-right riots this past week, I’ve seen people condemn nationalist ideology by declaring that immigrants are your doctors – ‘they save your life’.', 'While this is true and valuable, it also adds to the model minority myth.', 'It says to me that those who aren’t doctors and such, should not be immune to these attacks. It pits people against each other with stereotypes that don’t exist – it implies that some Asians are doctors, but the rest are terrorists.', 'It essentially tells people to respect one and fear the other.', 'But immigrants should not be valued on whether they can save your life or not – or their economic worth. They should just be valued as human beings.', 'Something, I fear, is not happening, when I watch young kids walking down UK streets this week gleefully chanting ‘P*ki’s out!’', 'I personally haven’t heard someone yell that since I had it directed at me at a lunchtime boat party in Vauxhall in 2013. As I sat there with a pint of fruity cider, a couple tried to get on the boat, were escorted off, saw me and yelled ‘fucking p*ki’.', 'I’ve had rumblings of it occasionally since, but nothing as direct.\xa0', 'However, the last few days I’ve found myself standing at my front door for an hour, gathering the strength to walk out and face what could possibly be awaiting me. My anxiety has been at an all-time high, as I try to navigate my every day.', 'A person’s safety should not be predetermined on how much value they add to a country’s economic system.', 'Immigrants should be allowed to ‘do nothing’ – a luxury afforded to others. Can they not go to work in a dead-end job, be miserable, go to sleep and start over again', 'Isn’t that the British dream? Because if not, should we not judge British people by the same point system? Obviously not.', 'The system itself is inherently flawed, but acknowledging it is the first step in dismantling it.', 'And if we keep telling immigrants that we love them because they save our lives – because they are our neighbours, friends or family – then we’re doing ourselves an injustice as human beings.']"
92,"['A British holidaymaker captured the moment a cruise ship came to the aid of an overcrowded\xa0boat taking migrants on a perilous journey across the Ionian Sea.\xa0', 'The stricken vessel was adrift 112 nautical miles south-west of the Greek coastal town of Pylos when the Royal Caribbean liner’s crew diverted to answer the distress call.\xa0', 'The captain made an emergency announcement, saying that all ships in the area had been requested to attend the sinking boat, as the liner altered course en-route to Santorini. \xa0', 'The luxurious Odyssey of the Seas, which is 1,138ft long and has 16 decks, launched two smaller boats to bring the drifting vessel alongside and transfer 77 people onboard.\xa0\xa0', 'The occupants included 36 men, seven women and 34 children.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Kevin Gibbons, 41, an ex-pat from the UK who lives in Spain, watched the rescue unfold on\xa0Monday night. \xa0', '‘The crew\xa0did an amazing job, sending out two rescue boats to tow the overloaded sinking boat back to the cruise ship,’ he said. ', '‘Where you can see they were all transferred to the cruise ship awaiting the arrival of the coast guard and authorities to take over.\xa0\xa0', '‘I understand it’s international law to rescue any sinking ship or distress call at sea, I totally accept it’s the right thing to do, but surely the whole world, including the rich states need to do more to assist and deter these deathly attempts to reach Europe.’\xa0', 'Twenty-seven of the rescued were transferred to a Hellenic Coast Guard patrol boat and the remaining 50 onto the Panagia Thalassini passenger-launch before being disembarked at the Greek port of Kalamata. \xa0', 'The liner had to reschedule a port stop in Santorini because of the diversion, with the anchoring taking place yesterday instead.', 'A Royal Caribbean spokesperson said: ‘On August 5, 2024, the ship encountered a small vessel adrift and in need of assistance.\xa0 ', '‘Alongside the Greek Coast Guard, the ship’s crew immediately launched a rescue operation and has returned to its sailing.’\xa0']"
93,"['Two 12-year-old boys and a 13-year-old girl are among the hundreds accused of riot-related offences making their way through the courts – the majority of which will likely be heading to prison.', 'Nearly 1,000 arrests have been made as of Monday, with almost 400 people charged over the disorder that swept the country in the wake of the Southport stabbings.', 'At least 50 of those are thought to be under the age of 18.', 'The youngest to appear in court so far are two 12-year-old boys – one of whom was caught at two separate riots and described by a judge as being ‘more involved in the violence and disorder than any other defendant I’ve seen’.', 'So, who has appeared in court so far and what sentences have been handed out?', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Joshua Simpson – first person convicted following rioting', 'Self-employed builder Simpson, 25, became the first person to be convicted following rioting outside a hotel housing asylum seekers in Rotherham.', 'Sheffield Magistrates’ Court heard he was abusive to police before he kicked a riot shield, forcing it back on to an officer’s leg.', 'Simpson admitted assault of an emergency worker.', 'He was remanded in custody by Deputy District Judge Simon Blakebrough who asked for a pre-sentence report to be prepared before he is sentenced on August 27.', 'The judge said he could not rule out a prison sentence for\xa0Simpson, who said he is homeless.', 'Derek Drummond – first rioter jailed for violent disorder', 'Drummond, 58, was jailed for three years for his part in violence in Southport on June 30.', 'Liverpool Crown Court heard bodyworn footage\xa0of\xa0from PC Thomas Ball showed Drummond approach the riot cordon line and say ‘s**thouses, s**thouses’.', 'Drummond was told to go back and he then punched PC Ball in the face.', 'Following a public appeal the defendant handed himself into police and said he was ‘a fool’.', 'Referring to the disturbances near to Southport Mosque on July 30 Honorary Recorder\xa0of\xa0Liverpool, Judge Andrew Menary KC said: ‘The genuine and collective grief\xa0of\xa0the residents\xa0of\xa0Southport was effectively hijacked by this callous behaviour.’', 'Steven Mailen and Ryan Sheers – how an afternoon at the bingo ended with a bite on the arse and a stretch inside', 'Mailen, 54, and his partner\xa0Sheers, 29, were each jailed for two years and two months after ending up ‘at the very forefront of the mob’ during unrest in Hartlepool.', 'Mailen was described as ‘one of the main instigators’ of a large-scale disturbance on Murray Street while\xa0Sheers was bitten on the backside by a police dog during the incident.', 'Up Next', 'The pair, neither of whom has any previous convictions, pleaded guilty to violent disorder after about 200 people gathered in the town on July 31.', 'Teesside Crown Court heard Mailen and\xa0Sheers\xa0had been at bingo together in the afternoon and continued drinking at home.', 'They told police they came upon the disturbance on the way to the shop to buy more alcohol and ended up being ‘at the very forefront of the mob’.', 'William Morgan – oldest jailed rioter so far', 'Morgan, 69, was jailed for two years and eight months over his part in unrest in which police were attacked and a library was set on fire.', 'He admitted violent disorder and possessing an offensive weapon – a cosh.', 'Judge Andrew Menary KC said: ‘Your advancing years plainly did not prevent you from playing an active part in a disturbance on County Road.’', 'Adam and Ellis Wharton – brothers who looted their local library', 'Adam\xa0Wharton, 28 and Ellis\xa0Wharton, 22, targeted the burnt-out site in County Road, Walton, Liverpool, where widespread public disorder took place earlier on Saturday August 3 as police officers came under attack.', 'After the disturbance subsided at about 2am on August 4, Adam\xa0Wharton\xa0acted as lookout while his younger brother entered the Spellow Hub premises which housed a number of facilities including a community centre, a library and a food bank.', 'Sentencing Adam\xa0Wharton\xa0to 20 months in jail and Ellis\xa0Wharton\xa0to 11 months in custody Judge Neil Flewitt KC said: ‘The Spellow Hub was a valuable local resource and its loss will be felt deeply by the community.', '‘Although your offending amounts in law to the offence of burglary, your conduct is more commonly described as ‘looting’, a despicable crime in which the offender seeks to profit from the misery of others.’', 'Sentencing Adam\xa0Wharton\xa0to 20 months in jail and Ellis\xa0Wharton\xa0to 11 months in custody the judge said: ‘The Spellow Hub was a valuable local resource and its loss will be felt deeply by the community.', '‘Although your offending amounts in law to the offence of burglary, your conduct is more commonly described as “looting”, a despicable crime in which the offender seeks to profit from the misery of others.’', 'Ellis\xa0Wharton\xa0received an eight-month jail term for the burglary and a consecutive three-month sentence for the assault.', 'Brendan Carville, defending Ellis\xa0Wharton, said: ‘He is the idiot who went into the premises while his brother stood outside. He is the one caught red-handed. He had never put a foot wrong in his life.', '‘I submit he is a person who has been used by his brother. His remorse was instant.’', 'Leanne Hodgson – pushed wheelie bins at officers and called one a ‘black c***’', 'Hodgson, 43, repeatedly pushed industrial bins at a police line during disorder in Sunderland.', 'She was jailed for two and a half years.', 'Hodgson deliberately ran into an officer and called another one a ‘f****** black c***’.', 'Newcastle Crown Court heard that when police saw her early in the evening she was ‘clearly under influence of alcohol and shouting abuse at officers’.', 'Later on, an officer described\xa0Hodgson\xa0‘running straight at him and colliding with him’. He said it was ‘clearly a deliberate act’ and when he looked at her afterwards she was ‘laughing and pointing at him’.', 'The defendant was identified by police from videos on social media, where she was seen pushing industrial bins towards police, picking up a glass bottle and motioning as if to throw it at officers, and breaking bricks on the ground before throwing them into the crowd to be used as missiles. The court heard she also threw an object at a parked police vehicle, smashing the windscreen.', 'In mitigation, the court heard she has ‘mental health difficulties exacerbated by alcohol problems’ and was ‘ashamed of her actions’.', 'Josh Kellett – rioter who remembered his balaclava but forgot to hide his tattoos', 'Kellett, also known as\xa0Josh\xa0Major, was seen on police drone footage throwing stones at officers four times in 45 seconds.', 'The 29-year-old wore a balaclava during disturbances in Sunderland.', 'But he was identified by an anonymous member of the public who watched a live stream of the riot and contacted police to say they recognised a person who was throwing items at police.', 'Newcastle Crown Court heard\xa0Kellett\xa0was arrested the next day at his home and the clothing and balaclava he was wearing in the footage were recovered. He later pleaded guilty to violent disorder.', 'Sentencing\xa0Kellett, Judge Paul Sloan KC, the Recorder of Newcastle, said he could be seen in footage ‘revelling in the mayhem’. Kellett\xa0nodded as his sentence was passed.', 'Cole Stewart – baby-faced rioter who squealed ‘I’m a child’ during arrest', 'Stewart, 18, was detained for 18 months after he could be seen ‘celebrating’ after throwing a rock which hit a police officer during riots in Darlington.', 'He was one of about 30 people who gathered outside a mosque in the North East town on August 5.', 'Teesside Crown Court heard the group was chanting racist and far right slogans.', 'Police formed a line separating the protesters from a group of about 60 Asian men who had gathered outside the mosque to protect it.', 'Up Next', 'Stewart, of Victoria Road, Darlington, was seen breaking a large boulder into smaller rocks and throwing them towards officers.', 'When one rock hit an officer on the arm\xa0Stewart\xa0was seen ‘celebrating with his arms in the air’.', 'But the smile was quickly wiped from his face when a handful of riot officers moved in, with body work footage recording him pleading: ‘I’m a child, I’m a child.’', 'Judge Francis Laird KC told him: ‘You chose to take part in an organised act of public disorder, indeed you were at the forefront of it.’', 'John Honey – Lush looter who ‘offered his autograph in prison because he’s famous’', 'Honey helped attack a car with three Romanian men in, targeted a garage leaving nine vehicles damaged and pushed bins at police lines during the disorder on August 3.', 'The 25-year-old ‘played a prominent role’ in 12 hours of violence and unrest that gripped the city while wearing a ‘distinctive’ England flag T-shirt, prosecutors said.', 'Honey pleaded guilty to violent disorder and three charges of burglary at\xa0Lush, the O2 store and Shoezone.', 'Judge John Thackray KC, the Recorder of Hull, said he had received a letter from a member of staff at HMP Hull who said they were conducting an assessment with Honey when he had asked ‘if I wanted his autograph as he is famous and is all over social media’.', 'Honey also told the employee he ‘went into Greggs to have a drink as the pepper spray made him thirsty’.', 'They said he was an ‘over-confident individual who presented with no remorse’.', 'Derek Drummond, 58, of Liverpool, jailed for three years for violent disorder and assaulting an emergency worker in Southport', 'Declan Geiran, 29, of Liverpool, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Liverpool city centre', 'Liam Riley, 41, of Kirkdale, jailed for 20 months for violent disorder and racially aggravated public order offence in Liverpool city centre', 'Adam Wharton, 28, of Walton, jailed for 20 months for burglary with intent to steal in Liverpool', 'Ellis Wharton, 22, of Walton jailed for 11 months for burglary with intent to steal and assaulting a PC in Liverpool', 'William Morgan, 69, of Walton, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder in Liverpool', 'John O’Malley, 43, of Southport, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder in Southport', 'Steven Mailen, 54, of Hartlepool, jailed for two years and two months for violent disorder in Hartlepool', 'Ryan Sheers, 29, of Hartlepool, jailed for two years and two months for violent disorder in Hartlepool', 'Lucas Skeaping, 29, of Tavistock, jailed for 18 months for violent disorder in Plymouth', 'Daniel McGuire, 45, of Plymouth, jailed for two years and two months for violent disorder in Plymouth', 'Michael Williams, 51, of Devon, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder in Plymouth', 'Guy Sullivan, 43, of Plymouth, jailed for 16 months for violent disorder in Plymouth', 'Sameer Ali, 21, of Leeds, jailed for 20 months for violent disorder in Leeds', 'Adnan Ghafoor, 31, of Leeds, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Leeds (in breach of suspended sentence)', 'Jordan Parlour, 28, of Leeds, jailed for 20 months for using threatening words or behaviour to incite racial hatred', 'Jordan Plain, 30, of Horsforth, jailed for eight months for racially aggravated harassment in Leeds', 'Justin Crimp, 49, of Plymouth, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder and criminal damage in Plymouth', 'Richard Williams, 34, of Flintshire, jailed for three months for sending menacing messages via a public communication network', 'Josh Kellett, 29, of Washington, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Sunderland', 'Leanne Hodgson, 43, of Sunderland, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Sunderland', 'Bradley Makin, 21, of Sunderland, jailed for two years for violent disorder and possessing drugs in Sunderland', 'Andrew Smith, 41, of Sunderland, jailed for two years and two months for violent disorder in Sunderland', 'Stacey Vint, 34, jailed for 20 months for violent disorder in Middlesbrough', 'Charlie Bullock, 21, jailed for 18 months for violent disorder in Middlesbrough', 'Tyler Kay, 26, of Northampton, jailed for 38 months for stirring up racial hatred', 'Ozzie Cush, 20, of Reading, jailed for 10 months for assaulting an emergency worker in Whitehall', 'Kenzie Roughley, 18, of Pontefract, jailed for two years and four months for violent disorder in Rotherham', 'Christopher Douglas, 35, of Hull, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder in Hull', 'Brandon Kirkwood, 20, of Hull, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Hull', 'Andrew Stewart, 37, of Hull, jailed for two and a half years for violent disorder in Hull', 'Cole Stewart, 18, of Darlington, jailed for 18 months for violent disorder in Darlington', 'Thomas Rogers, 22, of Middlesbrough, jailed for two years and two months for violent disorder and possessing an offensive weapon', 'Dylan Carey, 26, of Greater Manchester, jailed for 18 months for violent disorder in Southport', 'Amjad Ali, 19, of Northampton, jailed for 14 months for affray', 'Drew Jarvis, 19, of Barnsley, jailed for three years for violent disorder', 'Curtis Coulson, 30, of Sheffield, jailed for four and a half months for affray in Sheffield', 'Kaine Hicks, 22, of Barnsley, jailed for two years and eight months for violent disorder in Rotherham', 'John England, 45, of Mansfield, jailed for 20 months for using threatening, abusive or insulting words to stir up racial hatred', 'David Hill, 38, of Bootle, jailed for two years for violent disorder in Liverpool city centre', 'Philip Prescott, 38, of Southport, jailed for three years and four months for violent disorder in Merseyside', 'Gareth Metcalfe, 44, of Southport, jailed for three years and four months for violent disorder in Merseyside', 'David Spring, 61, of Sutton, jailed for 18 months for violent disorder in Whitehall']"
94,"['Three men have been arrested after a woman was stabbed at Notting Hill Carnival while she was with her child at the event’s ‘family day’', 'She was one of three people stabbed at one of London’s most famous events with the Metropolitan Police saying they were ‘tired of seeing crime scenes at Carnival’.', 'A 20-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder, while two others, aged 22 and 24, have been arrested on suspicion of violent disorder. ', 'Commander Charmain Brenyah, the Met’s spokesperson for Notting Hill Carnival, said:\xa0‘Our thoughts, first and foremost, are with the woman who is fighting for her life in hospital and with her loved ones.', '‘She came to Carnival to have fun, with her young child, and was caught up in the most awful violence.’', 'Officers were called to Golborne Rod at 6pm on Sunday after the Carnival policing operation became aware of a woman who had been stabbed. ', 'She is one of eight people who were stabbed at the event over the weekend. ', 'Deputy Assistant Commissioner Ade Adelekan, who is in charge of the policing operation, said: ‘Yesterday we saw the first day of Carnival marred by unacceptable violence.', '‘This was supposed to be “family day” – a celebration suitable for all ages. One of those in hospital, a 32-year-old woman whose condition remains critical, was at Carnival with her young child.’', 'Two men were also knifed during the event, one aged 29 who is in hospital in a non-life threatening condition and another, aged 24, whose condition is not yet known.', 'Police say 15 officers were assaulted but ‘fortunately none have sustained serious injuries’, while 90 people have been arrested in connection with an array of different crimes, including sexual and drug-related offences.', 'A total of 18 offensive weapons, including knives, were confiscated throughout the day.', 'The Met Police said in a statement: ‘Hundreds of thousands of people came to Notting Hill Carnival today to enjoy a fantastic celebration. Our officers have been on duty working to keep them safe as part of a very carefully planned policing operation.', '‘Regrettably, a minority came to commit crime and engage in violence.’', 'Extra measures were also authorised giving police greater powers to stop and search partygoers – and prevent further violence.', 'The Met added that a Section 60 order will be in place for the carnival area from 6.05pm to 2am.', 'In anticipation of violence, the force deployed 9,000 officers to manage the scores of revellers.', 'Last year, there were eight stabbings and 275 arrests at the Notting Hill Carnival. ', 'In 2024, there have already been three knife attacks and 90 arrests with another day of the festival still to go.', 'Those arrests today were made for the following offences, the Met said:', 'A police spokesman said yesterday: ‘Carnival is one of the world’s most significant street festivals. Every year around a million people come to celebrate and take part in what has become a fixture in London’s cultural calendar.', '‘But for many reasons it is also a challenging event to police with very dense crowds and a regrettable history of a minority of people using it as an opportunity to commit crime, including violence.’', 'Commander Charmain Brenyah, the Met’s spokesperson for this year’s event, said of the task of policing at previous carnivals: ‘It was a challenging environment to work in and one which over the past two years has seen more than 500 arrests, 15 stabbings including one that was fatal, and more than 125 police officers assaulted. ', '‘These incidents can’t be downplayed or dismissed. It is for that reason that anyone going to Carnival will see a very significant policing presence.’', 'Up Next', 'It comes as the masses descended on the city with vibrant colours drenching the streets for the annual Caribbean-themed fiesta.', 'The party, which always falls on August bank holiday weekend, fully kicked into gear on Sunday with the main parade.', 'A three-and-a-half mile march went through most of W10 from near Westborne Park Tube Station all the way to Ladbroke Grove.', 'Thousands of performers have been showing their talent, while the iconic wacky costumes are out in force for its 56th edition.', 'Flamboyant outfits are on show everywhere you turn, while steel bands, sound systems and dancers are entertaining crowds.', 'Pictures from today, which is supposed to be the children-friendly day, showed the best of the incredible array of fashion statements.', 'A special children’s parade with kids dancing through the streets also went ahead, complete with ‘dutty mas’.', 'Dutty mas or ‘fun mas’ is the phrase used to describe dancers covered in brightly coloured paints and powders. ', 'Over the course of the weekend, around two million people are expected to attend the free event which goes ahead with the help of 40,000 volunteers.', '‘Notting Hill Carnival is a vibrant testament to the power of unity and the celebration of our shared humanity,’ said Notting Hill Carnival CEO Matthew Phillip ahead of the weekend.', '‘It is a festival that breaks down barriers, builds bridges and showcases the very best of our multicultural society.', '‘For generations, the UK has been energised and enriched by the contributions of those who have chosen to make this country their home. ', '‘From the Windrush generation to the present day, immigrants have been the lifeblood of our economy, the backbone of our public services, and the spark for our cultural renaissance.’', 'He added: ‘Notting Hill Carnival was born from the Caribbean community’s desire to combat racial tensions and celebrate their heritage, it has grown into a beloved national institution that attracts millions of visitors from across the globe. ', '‘It stands as a powerful reminder of how diversity strengthens our society and fuels our creativity.’']"
95,"['A far-right party appears to be on track to win a German state election for the first time since World War II.', 'Exit polls suggest Alternative für Deutschland (AfD) will become the largest party in Thuringia, in the east of the country, with 30.5-33.5% of the vote.', 'It also appears to be roughly level with the main German opposition party, the centre-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU), following another election in Saxony.', 'However, the AfD may struggle to form a government in either region as the CDU – once led by Angela Merkel – maintains its longstanding position of refusing to work with the anti-immigrant party.', 'Alice Weidel, a national co-leader of AfD, described the stance as ‘pure ignorance’ and said that ‘voters want AfD to participate in a a government’.', 'Today’s state elections came after thousands of people rallied in Erfurt, the regional capital of Thuringia, to denounce the AfD as fascists.', 'In May, local party leader Björn Höcke was fined €13,000 for using a Nazi slogan, though he claimed he did not know its meaning.', 'The elections were widely predicted to be bad news for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) led by Chancellor Olaf Scholz, as well as the other parties in his ruling coalition.', 'Some forecasts suggested none of the parties in the national government would win a single seat in Thuringia, though it now appears that the SDP may emerge with some representatives.', 'Nevertheless, the overall picture does not appear positive for Scholz or his coalition partners as they contend with strong anti-immigrant sentimentand scepticism towards Germany’s military support for Ukraine.', 'Another figure who has benefitted from the lack of popularity for the country’s mainstream parties is Sahra Wagenknecht, whose self-titled Sahra Wagenknecht Alliance could take up to 16% of the vote in Thuringia and 12% in Saxony.', 'Wagenknecht, a left-wing populist, has surged in polls with stances on topics such as immigration and Ukraine that would more often be associated with the right wing of politics.', 'The next national election in Germany will take place in a little over a year.']"
98,"['Hundreds of children are being abducted from hotels after the Home Office ignored warnings over the risks facing young asylum seekers who arrive here alone, it has been claimed.', 'A whistleblower from Home Office contractor Mitie said traffickers were snatching child migrants in front of their taxpayer-funded accommodation and bundling them into cars. ', 'The latest figures confirm 222 have vanished without trace, including 79 from one Brighton hotel. ‘Children are literally being picked up from outside the building, disappearing and not being found,’ the source told the Observer. ‘They’re being taken from the street by traffickers.’ ', 'Children who arrive alone in the UK and claim asylum spend more than two weeks on average in hotels before being transferred to local authority care.', 'The whistleblower said about ten per cent of youngsters disappeared each week from a hotel in Hythe, Kent. Campaigners say traffickers are thought to take children as far as Manchester and Scotland.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The revelations will increase pressure on home secretary Suella Braverman. She was already under fire over her treatment of asylum seekers after an outbreak of diptheria at the Manston immigration centre in Kent, and a record number of Channel crossings in 2022.', 'Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said Ms Braverman ‘has failed to act on the repeated warnings’. Brighton and Hove City Council said it tries to find children who disappear from hotels in its city. The Home Office said local authorities ‘have a statutory duty to protect all children’ and ‘robust safeguarding procedures’ were in place. ']"
102,"['Rishi Sunak’s plans to permanently bar asylum seekers who arrive in the UK on unauthorised small boats have been winning praise from far-right figures in Europe.', 'Italian deputy prime minister Matteo Salvini hailed the measures as ‘harsh but fair’, while French former presidential candidate Eric Zemmour congratulated Mr Sunak for his stance.', 'Home Secretary Suella Braverman unveiled new legislation this week that is key to the Prime Minister’s priority of ‘stopping the boats’ crossing the Channel.', 'Under the proposed new rules, refugees entering the UK will be permanently banned from claiming asylum or returning to the country once expelled.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The prime minister also said those attempting to illegally enter the country will not be protected by the UK’s modern slavery laws and would be deported to ‘a safe third country like Rwanda’ at the earliest convenience.', '‘Once you are removed, you will be banned- as you are in America and Australia- from ever re-entering our country,’ he added.', 'The UN’s refugee agency, the UNHCR, said it was ‘profoundly concerned’ by the plans and said they would amount to an ‘asylum ban’.', 'But Mr Sunak’s announcement has been celebrated by the far-right.', 'Mr Salvini, who serves in Italy’s first far-right led government since the end of the Second World War, shared an image of Mr Sunak accompanied by details of his policy online.', '‘Prime Minister of the UK. Harsh but fair,’ the leader of the anti-immigrant League party captioned it on Instagram.', 'Salvini’s comments come after at least 72 people, including children, perished at sea after a small boat carrying migrants hit some rocks off Italy’s southern coast.', 'Le message est clair. Au Royaume-Uni, les clandestins ne sont pas les bienvenus et nâ\x80\x99auront aucun traitement de faveur.Bravo au Premier ministre britannique qui, contrairement au Gouvernement de Macron, fait le choix de protÃ©ger son peuple contre la submersion migratoire. https://t.co/VfAWW1Q1EX', 'In France, Mr Zemmour, a former TV pundit whose failed bid for the French presidency was based entirely on migration, shared Mr Sunak’s policy and said the ‘message is clear’.', 'Mr Zemmour, who has falsely claimed that Adolf Hitler’s Vichy collaborators protected France’s Jews, said: ‘In the UK, illegal immigrants are not welcome and will get no preferential treatment.', '‘Congratulations to the British Prime Minister who, unlike Macron’s government, is choosing to protect his people from the flood of migration.’', 'Mr Sunak will meet French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Friday and urge him to ‘go further’ in his efforts to stop migrant boats leaving French shores.', '‘Certainly we are going in there with an ambition to go further on stopping the boats making these dangerous crossings,’ the PM’s spokesman told reporters this week.', 'Meanwhile, Labour has accused the Government of ‘ramping up the rhetoric on refugees’ with what it argues will be an ineffective ‘con’.', 'The SNP’s Westminster leader Stephen Flynn suggested Mr Sunak was taking inspiration from either prominent Brexiteer Nigel Farage or Enoch Powell, who was best known for his infamous ‘rivers of blood’ speech that was widely blamed for heightening racial tensions in the 1960s.', 'Ms Braverman, while conceding the plans may fall foul of human rights laws, has said failing to tackle the ‘waves of illegal migrants’ would ‘betray’ voters.', 'This week saw her become embroiled in a row with BBC sports pundit Gary Lineker, after he described the policy as ‘cruel’ and criticised the language surrounding it as ‘not dissimilar to that used by Germany in the 30s’.', 'To become law, the plans must first be approved by Parliament, which the Home secretary hopes to accomplish before the end of the year.', 'Enver Solomon, head of the Refugee Council, said the plans would ‘add more cost and chaos to the system’.', 'He added: ‘It’s unworkable, costly and won’t stop the boats.’']"
104,"['A three-storey barracks barge will now be the temporary home for asylum seekers arriving on British shores, the Government has confirmed.', 'The Home Office said today that the Bibby Stockholm, a large block of flats stacked atop a floating platform, has been leased for 18 months.', 'The ‘basic and functional accommodation’ will have around-the-clock security on-board to ‘minimise the disruption to local communities’, the Home Office said.', 'Bibby Stockholm contains a basic gym, bar, games room and more than 220 en-suite bedrooms, according to a fact sheet from owners Bibby Maritime.', 'New arrivals will start to be housed on the ship ‘in the coming months’, the Home Office added.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The deal was signed earlier today by the Home Office to charter the 91-metre ship docked in Portland Port, Dorset. The department has not yet set out of the cost of the agreement. ', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tA three-storey barracks barge will now be the temporary home for asylum seekers arriving on British shores, the Government has confirmed.\n\nThe Home Office confirmed that the Bibby Stockholm, a large block of flats stacked on a floating platform, has been leased for 18 months.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'Immigration minister Robert Jenrick said: ‘The Home Secretary and I have been clear that the use of expensive hotels to house those making unnecessary and dangerous journeys must stop.', '‘We will not elevate the interests of illegal migrants over the British people we are elected to serve.', '‘We have to use alternative accommodation options, as our European neighbours are doing – including the use of\xa0barges and ferries to save the British taxpayer money and to prevent the UK becoming a magnet for asylum shoppers in Europe.’', 'The Bibby Stockholm was once used by the Netherlands to house 500 asylum seekers in the 2000s.', 'During this time, a Dutch watchdog denounced the ‘oppressive environment’ people who fled war and persecution had to live in – it’s since been ‘refurbished’.']"
106,"['The Archbishop of Canterbury has condemned the Government’s Illegal Migration Bill in the House of Lords.', 'Justin Welby said the legislation that plans to send immigrants to Rwanda is ‘morally unacceptable.’', 'He said the bill is a ‘short-term fix’ that ‘risks great damage to the UK’s interests and reputation at home and abroad, let alone the interests of those who need protection’ as he spoke in the House of Lords.', 'Mr Welby said: ‘Of course we cannot take everyone and nor should we, but this Bill has no sense at all of the long-term and the global nature of the challenge that the world faces.', '‘It ignores the reality that migration must be engaged with at source as well as in the channel. As if we as a country were unrelated to the rest of the world.’', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Mr Welby added: ‘It is isolationist, it is morally unacceptable and politically impractical to let the poorest countries deal with the crisis alone and cut our international aid.', 'Up Next', '‘Our interests as a nation are closely linked to our reputation for justice and the rule of law and to our measured language, calm decision and careful legislation. None of those are seen here.', '‘This nation should lead internationally, not stand apart’.', 'Immigration minister Robert Jenrick accused Mr Welby of being ‘wrong on both counts’.', 'He told the BBC’s World At One: ‘It’s important that the House of Lords plays its constitutional function scrutinising legislation but I strongly disagree with some of the comments that have been heard in the House of Lords today. This is the right approach.', '‘We have to tackle illegal migration and we have to bring control back to our borders.’', 'Asked about the archbishop’s comments in the Lords earlier on Wednesday, Mr Jenrick said: ‘Well, he’s wrong on both counts.', '‘Firstly, there’s nothing moral about allowing the pernicious trade of people smugglers to continue… I disagree with him respectfully. By bringing forward this proposal we make it clear that if you come across illegally on a small boat you will not find a route to life in the UK.’', 'He added: ‘That will have a serious deterrent effect.’', 'House Of Cards author Lord Dobbs also rejected the Archbishop’s criticism, stressing the need to tackle the people smugglers.', 'The Tory peer and former adviser to the Thatcher government said: ‘They trade in lies, they trade lives.', '‘It is our moral obligation to stop them, to bring an end to the unimaginable pain of mothers and fathers watching their children drowning off our shores in the channel.', '‘No amount of handwringing or bell ringing is going to do that.’', 'He is one of the 90 peers expected to raise issue with the proposed bill in its second reading within parliament.', 'The intervention marked his second major rebuke of the Government’s treatment of migrants and asylum seekers.', 'The clampdown has been prompted by Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s pledge to ‘stop the boats’ bringing migrants across the English Channel.', 'More than 6,000 migrants have crossed the channel so far in 2023.', 'To cope with the numbers, the Government plans to use disused military camps and a barge as accommodation centres.', 'But critics argue the flagship immigration reforms break international law and threaten modern slavery protections.', 'The Archbishop, in a speech to the Lords last year, warned against ‘harmful rhetoric’ that treats those arriving in the UK as ‘invaders’.', 'He has previously called for a better system based on ‘compassion, justice and co-operation across frontiers’.', 'Downing Street defended the bill as ‘compassionate and fair’ after the proposed legislation was condemned by the Archbishop.', 'Asked whether the Prime Minister believed Justin Welby’s intervention was appropriate, his official spokesman said: ‘Obviously it’s right that the Lords are able to scrutinise this Bill.', '‘The Government for its part will continue to robustly defend it.', '‘We think it is about an issue of fairness and it is not right to allow people to be preyed upon by criminal gangs.’', 'Downing Street refused to be drawn on the Archbishop’s criticism specifically but added: ‘The Prime Minister does not think it is compassionate or fair to allow people who are jumping the queue over some of the most vulnerable people who are seeking to come here through safe and legal routes.’', 'Asked whether the Bill was morally acceptable, the Prime Minister’s official spokesman said: ‘We think it is the compassionate and fair thing to do.’', 'The Bishop of Durham also appeared alongside other peers in the Lords, and quoted Jesus as he urged ministers to ensure migrant children will not be kept in detention for long periods of time.', 'The Rt Rev Paul Butler said migrant children needed the ‘highest levels of safeguarding written into the letter of the law’ to protect them.', 'Explaining his worries about the Bill, he told peers: ‘The state will view a child or a pregnant woman first and foremost as individuals subject to immigration control, not as an innocent child or a vulnerable mother due to give birth.', '‘We need to ask – what about the Government’s duty to protect?’', 'The Bishop added: ‘I am reminded of Jesus’ words: It would be better to have a millstone around the neck and be cast into the sea than to cause a little one to stumble.', '‘This responsibility needs to bear upon us heavily.’', 'Ahead of the legislation returning to the red benches, Home Secretary Suella Braverman and Justice Secretary Alex Chalk have urged peers not to stand in the way of the ‘will of the British people’ by blocking the UK Government’s migration policies.', 'Writing jointly for Times Red Box, the two Cabinet ministers said: ‘We urge the House of Lords to look at the Illegal Migration Bill carefully, remember it is designed to meet the will of the British people in a humane and fair way, and back the Bill.’', 'But in a rare parliamentary move, Liberal Democrat Lord Paddick, a former senior police officer, has proposed a so-called fatal motion to the proposed legislation, aimed at stopping it in its tracks at its first Lords hurdle.', 'His amendment argues the draft legislation would see Britain fail to meet its international law commitments, allow ministers to ignore the directions of judges and undermine ‘the UK’s tradition of providing sanctuary to refugees’, while failing to tackle the backlog of asylum cases or people-smuggling gangs.', 'But the blocking bid is destined to fail without the backing of the main opposition.', 'A Labour source said: ‘We’re not supporting the motion. If successful, which they never are, the Government could just Parliament Act the Bill in the next King’s Speech and peers would lose the opportunity to make any amendments.', '‘It is therefore an irresponsible way to deal with legislation that has already gone through the the elected House.’', 'The two Green Party peers will be among those supporting the fatal motion, with Baroness Jones of Moulsecoomb saying: ‘This Bill is illegal because it breaks international law and should be opposed for that reason alone. It is also immoral and plain nasty.', '‘It effectively makes all asylum seekers criminals unless they are from a few select countries where the UK has approved pathways and safe routes for immigration such as Hong Kong.’', 'Lady Jones added: ‘It is hugely disappointing that Labour are failing to oppose this legislation outright, but unsurprising given their recent track record of caving in on Voter ID and the Public Order Bill. If we are to save our democracy, we need an opposition that is up to the job.’']"
107,"['Almost 500 people were rescued from the English Channel on one day by British life-savers, newly released data shows.', 'HM Coastguard (HMC), Border Force and the Royal National Lifeboat Institution (RNLI) took part in 11 responses on April 5.', 'In the biggest single interception, 73 people were rescued and taken to Dover after two vessels from Border Force attended.', 'Co-ordinated by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency after the alarm was raised at 6.55am, the incident in the Dover Strait saw the UK’s Defender and Athena crews being assisted by two French vessels.', 'The first call is logged to 1.24am and involved the Border Force’s Hurricane and Ranger catamarans and two fixed-wing Coastguard aircraft. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The Dover RNLI Lifeboat also took part in three incidents, one of which involved rescuing 46 people with support from an AR5 fixed-wing drone. ', 'Over the 12 hours of call-outs, another unmanned aerial vehicle, named in the logs as AR3, was deployed to assist the Hurricane.', 'The ship’s crew rescued 57 people attempting the treacherous crossing between France’s northern coast and England. ', 'In total, 480 people were taken to Dover over the course of the day, according to the information provided by HMC. ', 'The second busiest day of the year so far followed a report that people smugglers were using multiple launches of small boats at around the same time to overwhelm British and French patrols. ', 'Weather conditions are also understood to play a factor in spikes of attempted crossings across the English Channel.', 'The apparent change in tactics came almost a month after the government announced controversial new laws to stop small boat crossings.', 'Currently going through parliament, the Illegal Migration Bill would mean people seeking asylum in the UK through ‘safe’ countries and routes judged to be illegal can be detained and removed.', 'The legislation was introduced after the prime minister made ‘stop the boats’ one of his five pledges. ', 'The dataset shows that the government’s existing deterrence efforts, including a deal where the UK will pay France £478 million over the next three years to try and prevent the crossings, are not currently stemming the flow of people.', 'Separate figures from the Home Office show that 492 people were detected on the day — the second busiest of the year behind April 23, when 497 people risked their lives attempting to cross one of the world’s busiest shipping routes.', 'People smuggling networks were charging around 2,500 euros (£2,178) per person for a place on a rubber boat last year, according to Frontex, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency.', 'The prices were based on the feasibility of crossings and whether the journey was being sought by an individual or family group, and are likely to have risen, the European Union agency said. ', 'The danger faced by those being packed into flimsy inflatable boats by smugglers was underscored in December when four people died after a small boat capsized. ', 'The tragedy followed another which claimed 31 lives in November 2021, the worst loss of life in the Channel for 30 years.', 'Natasha Tsangarides, associate director of advocacy at campaign group Freedom from Torture, said: ‘Rishi Sunak’s own figures show that this refugee ban bill is as ineffectual as it is vindictive.', '‘Devised to demonise refugees to distract from his own failings and win populist votes, this inhumane legislation will do nothing to reduce the number of deaths on the Channel.', '‘By shutting down means to seek sanctuary, the government has left the perilous Channel crossing as the only route available for most people fleeing torture and war to reach the UK.', '‘Anyone prepared to cross the busiest shipping lane in Europe in a flimsy inflatable must have concluded that the alternative is worse.’', 'Ms Tsangarides called for safe routes to be opened up to the UK to prevent asylum seekers risking their lives.', '‘Rather than punishing refugees and whipping up division, this government must abandon this Bill and focus on rebuilding a fair and efficient asylum system,’ she said. ‘Also, it must expand safe routes through international cooperation, which will reduce the push factors that drive people to make dangerous journeys.’ ', 'The Maritime and Coastguard Agency confirmed that it had taken part in the day’s biggest operation alongside French crews. ', 'A spokesperson said: ‘HM Coastguard coordinated the response to a small boat crossing on 5 April 2023 in the Dover Strait with 73 people on board. ', '‘We sent UK Border Force vessels Defender and Athena and they were assisted by French vessels Scylla and Loire. ', '‘All those on board were taken back to Dover.’', 'Overall, more than 6,500 people have crossed the English Channel in small boats so far this year, official figures show. ', 'Other deterrence efforts undertaken by the government include the plan to remove some people arriving by ‘irregular’ routes to Rwanda. ', 'The scheme is awaiting a decision by judges after more than 100 legal challenges by individuals and groups.', 'In another contentious move, a barge currently docked in Falmouth, Cornwall, called the Bibby Stockholm, is being readied to hold around 500 men while their asylum claims are processed. ', 'The government maintains that since 2015 a safe and legal route to the UK has been offered to almost half a million men, women and children seeking safety, as well as family members of refugees.', 'A Home Office spokesperson said: ‘These figures demonstrate how dangerous Channel crossings\xa0are. We cannot allow a system to continue which incentivises people to risk their lives and pay people smugglers\xa0to come here illegally.\xa0', '‘The British people want the government to stop the boats, which is why the Prime Minister made it one of his five priorities this year.', '‘Our Illegal Migration Bill\xa0is designed to end illegal entry into the UK by deterring migrants from making these dangerous and unnecessary journeys in the first place.’']"
110,"['As soon as I walked into the Hertfordshire hospital room a few years ago, I was greeted by a sea of friendly familiar faces.', 'I was there to visit a young man who had, sadly, fallen on tough times after his relationship broke down. He had tried to take his own life.', 'Thankfully, his suicide attempt was unsuccessful. But when his football team – one that we helped set up – found out about his condition in hospital, they all rushed to his side to support him.', 'By the time I got there, he was in good spirits. In fact, as soon as he saw me, he said: ‘When’s training, boss?’', 'I was so incredibly moved by this outpouring of love and support for him.', 'This is just one example of the life-changing work we do as a not-for-profit organisation that I helped found. Sporting Inspirations CIC acts as a catalyst to help transform the lives of young people aged 8-25 in some of the most socially-deprived areas of London and the East of England.', 'This is important now more than ever with the cost-of-living crisis and a generation of children negatively affected by the Covid-19 pandemic.', 'I’ve always been passionate about supporting young people. I grew up in socially deprived areas in Islington and Merseyside from an immigrant family with two disabled sisters, so I know the importance of community support, such as more of a sense of community and friendly neighbours.', 'In the early 2000s, I gave up my role as a managing director of a leading London fashion company because I wanted to give back and create a positive legacy for the future. That’s how our not-for-profit organisation came about.\xa0', 'Some young people turn up to our projects really hungry because their families can’t afford food', 'How it works is that we consult with young people, local authorities, agencies and police on the ground to see what the demand for a particular youth provision is like and identify any gaps. Then we’ll apply for funding and once that comes through, we’ll put up flyers in schools or known local hangouts to spread the word.', 'For example, we set up a project at Hertswood Academy in Borehamwood, Hertfordshire, where we partnered the local council, Herts Sports Partnership, Services for Young People, School of Hard Knocks and a big local housing association called Clarion.', 'A group of six young people ended up joining us for the first Friday night session. We carried out more detached work – youth work term for visiting the local community to engage and inform young people\xa0to boost the numbers.', 'Many recognised us from previous projects and were so happy to see us again after all the lockdowns and lack of free activities available. We helped put smiles and hope back on their faces.\xa0\xa0', 'It was such a success that the word spread and by the following week, 25 people showed up. That number doubled a week later, and it just kept growing and growing with an incredible 134 attending last week.', 'We set up football, basketball, kickboxing and dance classes. Besides supervising, our partnership team consists of youth workers, sports coaches, mentors, mental health advocates and first aiders, but they’re also there to talk about anything – from sexual health, substance misuse and relationship issues.', 'It’s not always an easy success for us though.', 'One basketball project we set up in Luton didn’t attract a single young person to its first session because we later found out that the place we were holding it in was the site of several recent stabbings. Once we moved it, more people started coming. We now have 30-40 young people attending weekly.', 'Our project has been highlighted in the Black History Month Impact Report.\xa0This project was particularly impactful as it has acted as a route to building positive connections between young people who have been affiliated with rival gangs within the area and previously involved in county lines issues. Helping to reduce crime.', 'We will always go the extra mile – one of our coaches has worked towards helping a young man achieve a basketball scholarship in the USA.', 'Our work is more important than ever in the years since the Covid-19 pandemic, where we’ve seen a 33% increase in the number of people coming to us for support.', 'Unfortunately, we’ve also noticed increased mental health challenges, behavioural problems and homelessness.', 'Some young people turn up to our projects really hungry because their families can’t afford food. As a result, we started to approach local food banks to provide meals for the young people at the end of some sessions.', 'It breaks my heart to hear some of these young people telling me it’s the first meal they’ve eaten all day or that the project each week is ‘the only thing’ they look forward to. Everything we do is free for all participants.', 'Sure, the physical and mental well-being side of things is incredibly beneficial, but often the social aspect of our projects, including speaking to positive role models, is one of the biggest things that brings young people back to us each week.', 'That’s exactly what national youth work charity, UK Youth, found in recent polling. Over a third (36%) of respondents said they are lonelier as they reduce their social life to save money, while one in five said their access to regular meals has been negatively impacted by the cost-of-living crisis. This is outrageous.', 'The Government needs to do more to support these vulnerable families and that means investing more in young people. We can only be as strong as the funding and sponsorship we receive and the key local partnerships we foster, as well as our staff and volunteers who keep us going.\xa0', 'UK Youth and Pears Foundation’s funding has helped us develop ideas with our partners to overcome some of the impact of the cost-of-living crisis. Watch this space!', 'I’m a glass half-full kind of guy and will never give up. Our children’s futures depend on it.', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", '‘Merit’s new tinted SPF 50 is the everyday skin staple you didn’t know you needed’', 'Shoppers can’t get over just how bright and glowy their skin looks after using this serum', 'Shoppers praise these Vitamin C pads from Rodial for ‘transforming’ their dull skin', 'Charlotte Tilbury is giving shoppers 20% off everything for a limited time only', 'As told to James Besanvalle']"
115,"['President Joe Biden smiled and ignored questions about a substance found in the White House, as lab tests confirmed that it was cocaine. ', 'Biden was asked by reporters in the Oval Office on Wednesday to comment on the cocaine that was discovered three days earlier and prompted a brief evacuation. ', 'The US president, sitting across from Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson, smiled widely and did not acknowledge the questions. ', 'Reporters asked Joe Biden: “How cocaine got into the White House?”But Joe Biden refused to answer. pic.twitter.com/5ZOFprjeE6', 'The substance was spotted by the ground floor entrance to the West Wing, where staff-led tours of the White House enter, usually on the weekends, a source told CNN. It is near where visitors must leave their cell phones. Sources have also said that the substance was in a small, zipped baggie. ', 'White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on Wednesday said that White House tours recently took place on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. ', 'Asked if it was possible that a visitor left the cocaine, she said: ‘It is where visitors to the West Wing come through. I’m not going to speculate on who it was.’', 'Jean-Pierre said that Biden was briefed on ‘everything we know so far’ around the incident. ', '‘We have confidence that they will get to the bottom of this,’ she said.', 'On Wednesday, former President Donald Trump joined other conservatives in claiming without evidence that the president and Hunter are linked to the substance. ', 'Trump then used the incident as an example of what he considers unfair treatment and coverage of himself compared to Biden.', '‘But watch, the Fake News Media will soon start saying that the amount found was “very small,” & it wasn’t really COCAINE, but rather common ground up Aspirin, & the story will vanish.’']"
119,"['Tens of thousands of people packed the streets of west London to mark the return of the Notting Hill Carnival to mark its 55th year.', 'What was started 55 years ago by\xa0Caribbean immigrants celebrating their roots is now the largest carnival of its type in Europe and the second in the world.', 'Attendees also paid tribute to the 72 people who were killed in the Grenfell Tower fire with a 72-second silence which began at 3pm.', 'Mayor of London Sadiq Khan shared colourful pictures from the first day of the event, saying: This is London. An amazing day! ', '‘The culture and creativity of Carnival shines through once again this year. Thank you to everyone working around the clock to keep Carnival a safe and spectacular celebration.’', 'The party atmosphere kicked off early and the Metropolitan Police confirmed that it was ‘largely good natured and positive’.', 'This is London. An amazing day! The culture and creativity of Carnival shines through once again this year.  Thank you to everyone working around the clock to keep Carnival a safe and spectacular celebration.#LoveLondon #NottingHillCarnival pic.twitter.com/q2RnNuaPvE', 'Thousands of officers were deployed across the area, with groups seen arriving in National Express coaches early in the day.', 'The force said the event ended without any ‘major incident’, and as of 9.30pm last night there had been 85 arrests.', '11 people were arrested for sexual assault, 10 for an assault on an officer, one for robbery, two for criminal damage and 25 for possession of an offensive weapon.', 'Others were also detained for grievous bodily harm, common assault and drugs.', 'A Section 60 order, providing officers with additional search powers, was brought in shortly after 6pm in an effort to prevent violence.', 'The Met said the decision was taken after a number of arrests for possession of offensive weapons.', 'Deputy assistant commissioner Ade Adelekan, who is leading the operation, said the arrests were ‘broadly consistent’ with what the force would expect at this stage of a Carnival weekend.', 'He added: ‘Preparations for Carnival began many months in advance and I am grateful not only to the many thousands of officers who are deployed over the weekend but to the partners and community representatives we work closely with.', '‘As ever we saw very large crowds who made their way from across London and beyond. ', '‘The atmosphere was largely good natured and positive with the overwhelming majority of people having an enjoyable and safe experience.', '‘Regrettably there will always be some who use the opportunity to commit offences.', '‘Carnival should be a safe environment for all and I am saddened that we have seen 11 arrests for sexual assault.’\xa0', 'Safer Spaces Now x Notting Hill Carnival pic.twitter.com/m2OJLStOwq', 'The Met is working closely with Safer Spaces, an organisation that operates at events across the UK, to provide areas where women and girls can go to seek advice from trained professionals and where appropriate, police officers. ', 'Some 654 people made use of the service during the day on Sunday, the force said.', 'Mr Adelekan added: ‘I am also disappointed that 10 of the arrests are for assaults on officers who are working diligently to keep everyone safe. ', '‘It is unacceptable that they should be the target of abuse or assaults and we will provide those affected with the necessary support.', '‘Our policing operation continues as we move into Bank Holiday Monday and we will once again have officers deployed across the local area throughout what we expect to be a busy day with significant numbers of people attending.’']"
120,"['Five young children ‘died holding each other’ when a fire engulfed their home after they were left there alone, it has been claimed.', 'At around 4.26am on Sunday, emergency services were called to a fire in the informal settlement of Itireleng, southwest of the city.', 'Four shacks went up in flames, taking the lives of Lethokuhle and Siyanda Masango, aged one and four, along with their cousins Senzo Mahlatsi Machika, two, Themba Thulane, six, and eight-year-old Dimakatso.', '‘The children’s bodies were close together and it seems they died holding each other,’ said neighbour Gilbert Mahlelebe.', 'Mums Lindiwe Machika, 39, and Zanele Machika, 36, were arrested and each charged with five counts of child negligence and five counts of culpable homicide.', 'The dad of three of the children, Johannes Masongwane, woke up to a nightmarish call from locals telling him his kids had died.', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'He said there was so much destruction he could not ‘even point at his kids or their remains because everything was just ash’.', '‘I didn’t know they would be sleeping over there and only learnt about it late in the evening.', '‘At about 3am, I got a call that my children had burnt. When I got to the scene, I found that my children had burnt beyond recognition.', '‘Their mother and her sister were not there. They have ruined my life. I lost everything.’', 'Both mums, who are still in police custody, gave Mr Masongwane’s address as the place they would stay if Atteridgeville Magistrate’s Court granted them bail.', 'But Mr Masongwane refused to help them, saying: ‘I don’t want them near me, they should not receive bail.’', '‘I will never forgive them – they must rot in jail,’ he added.', 'The kids’ paternal grandma Johanna said: ‘I am upset because the children had a good life with me and now they are gone.', '‘(Their mums) must stay there and die in jail because we lost kids all because of alcohol, they deserve to die in prison.’', 'Mr Mahlelebe told how he and several others had to use buckets of water to bring the blaze under control themselves because the roads in the crowded area were too narrow for a fire engine to fit through.', 'Itireleng has long been classed as a dangerous place to live for its population of about 30,000 who largely live in poverty.', 'This morning we are at the Itireleng informal Settlement near Laudium, Pretoria, along with community leaders from the surrounding communities assessing the area following the fire that destroyed multiple shacks and claimed the lives of five young victims.We will be â\x80¦ pic.twitter.com/QbbwiFiiJ4', 'With extremely limited access to official infrastructure, residents have set up illegal electricity connections which pose significant fire threats.', 'The local government representative for human settlement, Lebogang Maile, visited Itireleng\xa0on Monday and said all its residents needed to be relocated because it is ‘uninhabitable’.', '‘I cannot give time frames as to when these people will be moved but the city has to do something about this place – people are not supposed to be staying here,’ he said.', 'Itireleng\xa0is just one of the thousands of informal settlements in South Africa, all of which are vulnerable to fires because of overcrowding and poor construction.', 'A staggering 5,544 informal settlement blazes were reported in 2019 alone, the most recent year for which this data from Stellenbosch University is available.', 'The government and local leaders have long been under pressure to address this issue but it is a complicated one.', 'Many residents cannot afford to live in any other kind of housing, some are illegal immigrants with no way of renting officially and any efforts to rebuild settlements more safely leaves less space and ends up displacing people.', 'Mr Maile told TV news channel eNCA it was a ‘big, big challenge for the government to prevent the constant growth of informal settlements.', '‘We want to urge our communities to cooperate and work with us to prevent the mushrooming of informal settlements,’ he said.']"
122,"['Eight years have passed since the lifeless body of Alan Kurdi washed up on a beach in Turkey and stopped the world in its tracks.', 'Photographs of the drowned Syrian toddler splashed across newspaper front pages and primetime broadcasts roused millions to the human tragedy of Syria’s refugee crisis.', 'In the early hours of September 2, 2015, Alan’s family crowded onto a small inflatable boat on the beach of Bodrum.', 'But just minutes into their treacherous journey to Greece, the dinghy which smugglers had cramped them into capsized.', 'Alan, his older brother Ghalib and his mother Rihanna all drowned. Only his father Abdullah survived.', 'In death, the three-year-old became a defining symbol of the suffering of millions of refugees.', 'Anger over this needless horror should have marked a turning point in how world leaders respond to the global refugee crisis, but today charities continue to warn no lessons have been learned.', 'In fact, politicians seem even more determined to keep children like Alan, who are fleeing conflict and poverty, far away from the shores of Europe.', 'Just a week ago, four children – three girls aged 14, eight and 11 months, and an eight-year-old boy – drowned off the Greek island of Lesbos.', 'A woman and child were found unconscious off the island of Samos hours before this in a separate incident.', 'Three children were among the 41 migrants who drowned on their way from Tunisia to the Italian coast on August 9. And these individual tragedies scarcely scratch the surface of the human suffering caused by global conflict.', 'In the years since Alan’s death, some 20,000 lives and counting have been lost in the Mediterranean Sea. Roughly half have never been found, according to figures from the\xa0Missing Migrants Project.', 'Further data from UNICEF shows at least 289\xa0children are known to have died at sea\xa0in the first six months of 2023 while attempting to reach Europe.', 'It is nearly double the number recorded in the first half of 2022, UNICEF said in July.', 'Verena Knaus, UNICEF’s global lead on migration and displacement, stressed that the Mediterranean Sea is one of the deadliest migration routes in the world.', '‘Driven by conflict and climate change, more and more children are putting their lives at great risk while making the dangerous journey across the Mediterranean Sea to Europe,’ she said.', '‘This year, 289 children have died at sea. It is the equivalent to about 11 children dying each week – far beyond what we hear in news headlines. ', '‘This is nearly double the number of children dying at sea compared to last year – 150.', '‘In the first six months of this year, we estimate 11,600 children made the crossing – again, nearly twice as many as in the same period in 2022.', '‘Making matters worse, these figures from the first six months of 2023 are likely to be underestimates. ', '‘Many shipwrecks on the Central Mediterranean Sea crossing leave no survivors or go unrecorded, making the true number of child casualties practically impossible to verify.’ ', 'Ms Knaus described these deaths as ‘preventable’ and called on governments to protect the rights and best interests of children in line with their obligations under national and international law.']"
124,"['I’ll never forget the night before I left the Za’atari refugee camp in Jordan.', 'It was 2018 and I’d been there with my family – including my mum, brother, three sisters, two uncles and four aunties – for six years after fleeing Syria.', 'That night, friends and family came to take me and my brother, Waseem, to the gate of the camp. We sat behind them on their bikes, riding through the camp in the moonlight and singing Ma Salama, which means ‘goodbye’ or ‘peace be with you’.', 'But it was bittersweet because we had to leave the rest of our family behind. That’s because Waseem and I were prioritised for the UK Syrian Resettlement Programme due to our disabilities – we were born with phocomelia, a rare congenital disorder involving malformation of the limbs.', 'Unfortunately, the rest of my family are still there now. We haven’t seen them for five years and it’s hard to describe how difficult and upsetting that is because my mum has always been there for me.', 'I grew up in a beautiful village called Bayt Araa in the Syrian mountains. There were eight of us in the house – my three sisters, two brothers, my mum and dad. Oh, and six dogs. My dad was a farmer so we had lots of animals.', 'Growing up with my disability was tough though. I only liked to go out at night because no one could see my hands or legs in the dark. In the daytime, people would laugh and say ‘Penguin! Look, he walks like a penguin!’', 'They would also say to my dad: ‘You need to marry again because your children were born with a disability’. Even my teacher asked why I bothered coming to school.', 'Then our whole life turned upside down in 2011 when I was 17. Our village was a safe place to get to Jordan from Syria, so it was bombed.', 'At first, the bombs weren’t an immediate threat, but by 2012, they got very close to our house. After a particularly loud one, my dad shouted: ‘Go to the caves!’', 'There was no time to pack anything, we just had to run. I wasn’t even wearing any shoes and it was very painful. I couldn’t see if my feet were bleeding because it was pitch black.', 'It was a nightmare. All the animals had to be let loose too, including my precious dogs.', 'So 12 families – about 70 people – crowded inside a nearby cave. We heard tanks rumbling and you could feel it through the ground. It was like a horror movie. I couldn’t hear anything except the bombs and children screaming.', 'There was no going back to our homes for my whole family and most of our village. So we crossed into Jordan in big trucks. We left our village at 7am and didn’t arrive at the camp until after midnight.', 'We had seen the refugee camps in Jordan on the TV but we never thought it would happen to us. In fact, it was the first time I’d been in a tent.', 'Life in the Za’atari camp sometimes felt like being in prison because you couldn’t go anywhere without permission. There was also no transport and the ground was uneven, so it was very difficult for me to get around.', 'On top of that, it was so hot and dusty that it was hard to breathe and there was nothing green.', 'It was in Za’atari that I discovered my passion for theatre. I met a British woman called Arabella who was working for a Spanish NGO.', 'We put on shows like one called ‘I Can’, which was an aspirational show with disabled young people in the refugee camp. Another was called ‘Window of Hope’ about life in the camp, which I performed in and played the tabla (a drum). I would teach and support disabled young people in a theatre group, too.', 'I started applying for resettlement in 2015 – to the UK, Canada and the US. The rest of my family applied too, but only Waseem and I eventually got interviews to come to the former.', 'After six years in the camp, we were desperate to leave. We had been forced to flee our village when I was in high school, and I’d missed my exams so I wanted to continue my education.', 'In 2018, I got a phone call to say my application to go to the UK had been accepted – along with Waseem’s too. I was surprised because I had applied three times before, but I didn’t give up.', 'I was so sad that I had to leave my family behind – especially my mum – that I can’t really put it into words. We had two weeks to say goodbye; everyone was glad for me and Waseem but there were lots of tears.', 'When I left, I didn’t take much with me, just a few books to learn English. We flew to the UK and it was our first time on a plane.', 'I came to Gateshead in 2018 and now it’s my home. I could only speak a few words of English when I arrived and I certainly couldn’t speak any Geordie, but after a few months I started to understand the accent.', 'Waseem and I supported each other, but we still felt alone without the rest of our family. We had always all been together, and now it was just the two of us.', 'When I first arrived in the UK, I thought that the reaction to my disability would be different. That I could walk the way I do and nobody would look at me because people are more educated here.', 'But they still laugh. Everyday, they look – it’s just more hidden. Teenagers secretly film me and take pictures when I’m waiting for the bus. I know they’re doing it so I pretend I’m a celebrity and strike a pose.', 'Despite that, my life is generally good. I feel more confident now that I can speak English, and I can go anywhere I like. I’m always busy.\xa0', 'In the summer of 2018, our resettlement caseworker put us in touch with Curious Monkey, which is a theatre company that runs a project called ‘Arriving’ for people seeking sanctuary in the North East of England. I didn’t speak much English at the time so I was just smiling and nodding, but I threw myself into the workshops.']"
126,"['Far from a dispassionate list of ingredients and instructions, Recipes of Life is a cookbook filled with heartwarming – and sometimes heartbreaking – stories. ', 'The collective book features 38 recipes from 22 migrant men coming from all over the world – including China, Colombia, Nigeria and more – all now residing in London.', 'It also includes each author’s life story, detailing their direct experience of the UK’s hostile immigration system, including loneliness, exclusion and homelessness.', 'The people behind the book are all involved with GIANTS, a group for migrant men coming together to reduce isolation and share support while going through similar things.', 'Members developed Recipes of Life over two years as a form of group therapy, collaborating with NHS therapists. Each week, a member presented a dish, fostering dialogue about the significance of food in their lives and cultures.', 'Arthur, a member of the group, said: ‘Week after week, a different GIANT would come out of the kitchen with a feast they’d prepared, receiving applause and appreciation. We explained how food is a universal language, connecting people across cultures.', '‘We made connections every moment, sharing survival stories, talking about the tough times we faced. We shared stories of strengths, skills, identity, positivity, moving forward, and belonging, as well as the negative impact of hostile immigration policies, homelessness, and isolation.', '‘The project gave us an opportunity to talk in front of our brothers, instead of bottling it in. Sharing food and eating these meals together was a safe way to open up that bottle.’', 'Classic dishes like Jerk Chicken and Jollof Rice are complemented by innovative recipes, such as Alkaline Soup with nettles foraged in Hackney Marshes.', 'The collection was created alongside\xa0human rights charity Praxis\xa0and Tower Hamlets Public Health Division, and it was supported by\xa0Tim Anderson, chef, writer, and MasterChef winner, who sat in on sessions with the men.', '‘The stories shared have been truly moving, uplifting, and inspiring,’ commented Tim.', '‘My mother always used to say that food is love. I think this is true – after all, cooking, feeding, and eating are acts of nurturing. In the case of GIANTS, cooking nurtures both new connections and old memories. ', '‘The recipes and stories here are testament to the power of food as not just physical but also spiritual sustenance – and I have to say, they all sound really, really delicious!’', 'You can get hold of Recipes of Life by donating £15 to Praxis here, but Praxis has shared one of the featured dishes to give you a feel of what to expect.', 'Vernal Bernard\u202flearned to cook growing up in Jamaica, where he and his friends would participate in what are called Runboats, ‘where the local kids would combine their pocket money and resources to prepare a feast together.’', 'He loves to watch people enjoy his food, and makes meals for his children to pass on his heritage. After coming to the UK in 2002, he has been striving to preserve his heritage ever since, and says: ‘I always say that Praxis is my GP and GIANTS is my medicine.’', 'Here’s his recipe for a Caribbean chicken soup inspired by one his mum would make for him every Saturday.', 'Ingredients\xa0', 'Instructions', 'Spinners:', 'Act fast! Damson Madder’s viral reversible trench is finally back in stock', 'Charlotte Tilbury is giving shoppers 20% off everything for a limited time only', 'Simba’s May bank holiday sale is here! Save up to 20% on mattresses, beds and bedding', '9 best BBQs and pizza ovens from Dunelm you can use this weekend – and start from £15', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'Soup:', 'Do you have a story to share?']"
127,"['I’m ashamed to be Irish.', 'Five words I never thought I could say echoed in my head as I watched Dublin burn last night, the streets of our great city desecrated by a mob screaming how ‘Ireland should be for the Irish’ as they looted Irish-owned businesses.\xa0', 'Where I’m from, these are scenes we’re used to seeing on the news. Images from far-flung places, not home. What has become of our beautiful little country?\xa0', 'An afternoon that began with a horrific attack on three children and a woman was almost instantly co-opted by a group of angry people, driven by a far-right ideology that I’ve watched take root in Ireland after years of government failings on housing, healthcare and the economy.\xa0', 'Successive Irish governments have pursued policies that push public services into private interests for profit.\xa0', 'The unforgivable scenes we saw in Dublin last night were a culmination of more than a decade of systemic failures to provide adequate housing, mental health resources or any investment into making the inner city a safer place for everyone to live. Inequality has been allowed to run rife.', 'This racist, conspiratorial movement is small and usually splintered, but with grim inevitability, it has grown.\xa0', 'Dublin, the capital, where poverty and disenfranchisement is considered most acute, has seen the most insidious spread of this rhetoric. It has no place in Irish society, but we need real leadership to stamp it out.', 'Up Next', 'Our police commissioner was quick to say that nobody could have anticipated yesterday’s events, but prominent voices online disagree, saying it was all too clear within minutes of the attack that there would be violence on our streets.', 'It doesn’t matter if there were 10 or 10,000 people rioting. Any number of Irish people railing against those who have made their home in this country must be forced into a reality check. And a history lesson.']"
128,"['A Brazilian Deliveroo driver is being hailed as a hero after he stopped a knife attack outside a school in Dublin by smashing the attacker with his helmet.', 'An unprecedented wave of riots swept through Dublin last night after a knifeman injured three children and two adults in a terrifying attack outside Coláiste Mhuire on Parnell Square on Thursday afternoon.', 'But before the assailant could do further damage, he was stopped by Caio Benicio, 43, who stepped in to subdue the attacker after watching things unfold from his motorcycle.', 'Follow the latest on the Dublin stabbings and riots on our live blog.', '‘I saw the guy pulling the teacher, picking up the child. I stopped to see what was happening. I thought it was a normal fight,’ he said in a WhatsApp audio message which has since gone viral.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Up Next', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", '‘Then the teacher pulled the child, the guy pulled another child and pulled a knife. A five-year-old child!’', '‘Man, I threw the bike on the ground and went after the guy,’’ he added. ‘The guy stabbing the girl… I didn’t even think about it. I took my helmet off and hit… which knocked the guy down.', '‘I think I managed to knock the guy down with the helmet, I hit him in the head.’', 'Following Mr Benicio’s intervention, a number of onlookers stepped in to restrain the attacker until the police arrived.', 'Speaking to The Journal after the attack, the 43-year-old Brazilian said: ‘I have two kids myself, so I had to do something. I did what anyone would do. People were there but they couldn’t step in because he was armed, but I knew I could use my helmet as a weapon.’', 'But despite the heroics, his thoughts are focused firmly on the five-year-old victim currently in critical condition.', '‘I am praying, it’s all I am thinking of. I saw her in the ambulance, she looked so vulnerable, I had to go with gardaí then. I am waiting for news about her. I am hoping,’ he said.', '‘If a child didn’t survive, I would always think, I could have been faster. I chose to have surgery on my knee recently, it made me slow to get off the bike, could I have been faster?', '‘If all the victims survive, I will be thankful that I was in the right place, at the right time,’ he added.', 'Mr Benicio came to work in Ireland after his restaurant in Brazil burned down. He hopes his children can one day come over and join him.', 'He said he was saddened by the chaos which took place on the streets of Dublin last night, which appeared to be driven by an anti-immigrant sentiment.', 'Garda Commissioner Drew Harris last night blamed a ‘lunatic hooligan faction’ for the destruction in the city which saw vehicles torched, shops looted and police attacked as the city became ‘under siege’.', 'A police source later told the Irish Daily Mail: ‘We have to say fair play to those people who stepped in. They gave that man a good hiding to make sure he wasn’t going to get up and hurt more people, but I can tell you now that they saved lives.’', 'Responding to last night’s violence, Ireland’s Justice Minister Helen McEntee said: ‘This afternoon innocent young children were brutally attacked with their carer and I want to be very clear the person responsible will be held accountable and brought to justice.’', 'She continued: ‘I also want to be very clear there’s a group of people, thugs, criminals, who are using this appalling attack to sow division and wreak havoc in our city centre. I’ve spoken with the Garda Commissioner and every force possible is being used by the gardaí to restore order to this city.', '‘There will be arrests, people will be put in prison and order will be restored in this city.', '‘This will not be tolerated.’', 'Following Mr Benicio’s heroics, a fundraiser has been launched to ‘buy him a pint’ as a token of gratitude.', 'The fundraiser says: ‘The man’s a hero and the least we can do is buy him a pint so I’m asking you to\xa0donate the price of a pint of Guinness\xa0in your local to Caio so that he knows the people of Dublin appreciate him.’']"
132,"['King Alfred the Great! The Glorious Revolution! David Hume!', 'Thankfully, all my practising paid off and within minutes of leaving Croydon’s grey soulless visa centre, I was elated to receive an email saying that I had passed.', 'It’s just one of the hoops immigrants like me have to jump through in order to either get Indefinite Leave to Remain (ILR) or citizenship in the UK – not to mention extortionate fees and lengthy forms.']"
133,"['Police are investigating a fire which tore through a 19th century Georgian hotel in Galway which was intended to house asylum seekers.', 'The Ross Lake Hotel in Rosscahill, Ireland, had protestors convene outside to protest the number of migrants in the area hours before the fire broke out.', 'Though the hotel has not been used for years, it was intended to house more than 70 asylum seekers in the coming weeks.', 'The fire broke out around 11:35pm last night, and nobody was inside when it began.', 'The fire was put out, and today a technical examination of the site is set to take place to determine the cause of the blaze.', 'Protestors have been meeting in recent weeks across Ireland at sites where migrants are being housed to protest the government’s plans.', 'Last month, violent protests and arson attacks happened in central Dublin after an attack at\xa0Gaelscoil Cholaiste Mhuire primary school which saw multiple children and adults stabbed.', 'Garda Commissioner Drew Harris last night blamed a ‘lunatic hooligan faction’ for the destruction in the city which saw vehicles torched, shops looted and police attacked as the city became ‘under siege’.', 'A police source later told the Irish Daily Mail: ‘We have to say fair play to those people who stepped in. They gave that man a good hiding to make sure he wasn’t going to get up and hurt more people, but I can tell you now that they saved lives.’']"
134,"['Ricky Gervais is all over the news at the moment what with his recent Netflix special jokes kicking up a storm – which gave us an idea. ', 'He’s a marmite man. While some defend the 62-year-old for upholding the British humour cornerstones of irony and sarcasm, others can’t stand his insistence on shock-value comedy, which some find offensive. ', 'This was never more true than in the past week or so, as clips from his Netflix special Armageddon have done the rounds online. In it, Ricky made a joke about terminally ill children. ', 'Some people, including Ashley Cain, who\xa0tragically lost his own daughter Azaylia to cancer aged eight months, didn’t like that one bit. A petition has now been signed by almost 4,000 people demanding Netflix take that bit of his special offline.', 'Meanwhile, Ricky is celebrating being awarded a Golden Globe for the very same show. ', '‘Record Breaking Tour, On Netflix Christmas Day, Golden Globe Nomination. What a cracking f****ing year. Cheers,’ he said on X, formerly Twitter, delighted at his year’s work. ', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'Well, it’s all quite confusing. Do we love him, or hate him? Should he be cancelled, or celebrated? ', 'This got us thinking. To save all this controversy, could AI ever replace Ricky Gervais? Could it manage to be as funny as Ricky, without offending anyone at all?']"
136,"['At least five people seeking new lives in Britain have died in French waters after a boat carrying dozens of migrants overturned.', 'Emergency services intervened at 1.30am today after reports of a troubled boat off the coast of Wimereux to the south of Calais only moments after its departure. ', 'The bodies of four people of Syrian or Iraqi nationality\xa0have been recovered, maritime prefecture officials told France 24.', 'A fifth person was found dead late Sunday morning, the officials added.', 'With the temperatures of the English Channel at a blistering 10°C in the darkness of the early hours, one passenger told the French newspaper Voix du Nord: ‘We drowned right away.’', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Maritime officials say the ‘majority’ of those on board have been rescued as the search continues. ', 'Seventy-one people, including 10 children, have been pulled from the French stretch of the English Channel during rescue efforts so far.', 'Those saved were taken to a community centre in Calais by 3am where fire officials handed them water, coffee and tea as well as medical care.', 'A passenger was taken to the Boulogne-sur-Mer hospital after suffering from a cardiac arrest.', 'At least 20 asylum seekers – including 17 men, two children and a pregnant woman – are being treated for hyperthermia as of 6am local time. ', 'Rescue operations are also underway in Neuchâtel, in Hardelot, where a one-month-old baby was saved.\xa0', 'Vessel tracking data from the Abeille Normandie, the fishing vessel involved in the rescue, showed that from 1am to 4.30am the ship made several tight circles around 900 metres off the Wimereux coast.', 'Speaking on Sunday With Laura Kuenssberg,\xa0British foreign secretary David Cameron argued that the ‘heartbreaking’ deaths show ‘we’ve got to stop the\xa0boats’.', '‘And you can only think about what an appalling end it would be, and the cold waters of the Channel in the middle of the night. It breaks my heart to hear about it,’ he told the BBC morning talk show. ', '‘But it just shows we’ve got to stop the\xa0boats, we’ve got to stop this illegal trade in human beings.’', 'After authorities on either side launched crackdowns on routes to England, such as by truck through the Channel Tunnel, the number of migrants setting off by boat into the English Channel soared. ', 'Around 46,000 people were detected crossing the English Channel in small boats in 2022 – by mid-December last year, the number slumped by roughly a third to 29,090.', 'But as much as the lights of coastal towns on the other side can be seen on a clear day, campaigners say the narrowness of the thin waterway is deceptive. ', 'The English Channel, one of the world’s busiest shipping routes, is known for its strong currents and cold water.', 'Refugee rights groups stress that, for many who make the perilous and sometimes fatal trip, they don’t have much of a choice. ', 'So-called ‘legal’ safe routes are few and far between for those fleeing famine, poverty and war, groups such as the International Rescue Committee say.', 'For Enver Solomon, chief executive of the Refugee Council campaign group, today’s tragedy is a ‘wake-up call’ for the government to provide safe routes for those escaping from ‘war-torn countries or repressive regimes’.', '‘The sad reality is that this is not the first time we are waking up to such devastating news,’ she said.', '‘With no meaningful commitment from the Government to expand safe routes for refugees, it’s only a matter of time before tragedy strikes again.’']"
137,"['Two men believed to be migrants were\xa0found\xa0in the\xa0luggage\xa0hold of a coach returning from a school trip to France.', 'Children,\xa0their teachers, and their parents who were waiting to collect them were left stunned when the pair, thought to be in their early 20s, was discovered.', 'A picture shows one of the men hidden in a pile of suitcases and backpacks in the hold.', 'Hampshire Police were called to Hounsdown School in the village of Totton where the pupils were being dropped off on Saturday.', 'The coach had been carrying Year 9 and 10 pupils who had just come back from a three-day trip visiting Boulogne University, about 20 miles south of Calais.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'They had travelled home via the Eurotunnel at Calais, but it remains unclear how the men got on the coach.', 'A mum, who had been at the school to collect her daughter, told the BBC: ‘I saw one male with his hood up but I believe there were two males.’', 'She added: ‘My daughter came running over and she said “Oh my God, there’s people sat in where the suitcases are”.', '‘Obviously it’s quite concerning because there were 36 children on the coach and no-one was aware that they were on there.', '‘I understand these immigrants are wanting a better life but it is not very good targeting a coach full of children.’', 'Several parents took to social media to express their shock of what happened.', '‘Was an absolute shocker to see a person sat there as the kids went forward to get their bags,’ one man said.', 'Hampshire police confirmed that officers attended but that no arrests were made.', 'A spokesperson said: ‘We were called just before 5.15pm on Saturday, February 10, to reports that two people, who were possibly illegal immigrants, had been found at Hounsdown School in Totton.', '‘Officers have attended. No arrests have been made.’']"
139,"['Easter, and the lead-up of Holy Week, is a special time, whether you’re religious or not.', 'Christians reflect on the crucifixion of Jesus Christ on Good Friday and celebrate his resurrection on Easter Sunday, which is why there are symbols of crosses (hot cross buns) and new life (eggs, chicks and lambs) associated with the holiday.', 'Though it’s clear to see where the story of Jesus started, the Bible makes no mention of a mythical rabbit delivering sweet, chocolate eggs.', 'So, when did the Easter Bunny start to become synonymous with Easter?', 'One theory, according to Time magazine, is that the symbol of the rabbit stems from the ancient Pagan tradition believed to have started the celebration of Easter – the festival of Eostre.', 'Many Christian traditions have foundations in Pagan holidays, including Christmas itself.', 'Eostre was thought to honour the goddess of fertility and spring.', 'The goddess’s animal symbol was a rabbit, which have long traditionally represented fertility due to their high reproduction rates. Ergo the Easter Bunny was born.', 'However, others ascribe the origin of the Easter Bunny to traditions brought over to the United States of America by immigrant ancestors that evolved over time.', 'History.com suggests that it was first introduced in the 1700s by German immigrants in Pennsylvania, who reportedly brought over their tradition of an egg-laying hare named Osterhase or Oschter Haws.', 'This rabbit would lay colourful eggs as gifts to children who were well-behaved (Santa to keep them behaved in winter; Osterhase to keep them good in the spring.)', 'Eventually, the custom spread across the US to become a widespread Easter tradition – and over time, chocolates and other gifts became part of what would be given to well-behaved children.', 'The reason the Bunny traditionally gives out eggs from a basket is thought to date back to the\xa0Pennsylvania Dutch in the 1700s. They believed in an egg-laying hare called\xa0the ‘Osterhase’\xa0or ‘Oschter Haws.’', 'Their children would build nests in which the hare could lay its coloured eggs.', 'Eventually, chocolate treats would replace the coloured eggs and decorated baskets would replace the nests.', 'As for all the eggs, that tradition has its roots in Paganism too – another symbol of new life, eggs appeared in pagan festivals celebrating spring.', 'For Christians, the egg symbolises the moment Jesus emerged from the tomb following his resurrection.', 'As for why they’re chocolate, well, why not?']"
141,"['British life-savers responded to desperate calls from more than 70 migrants crammed onto a dinghy in a notorious stretch of the North Sea, a newly-released Coastguard log shows. ', 'The group\xa0called Kent Police to say that ‘they could only see water’ from the sinking vessel stranded in one of the world’s busiest shipping straits.\xa0\xa0', 'The dinghy, which had children on board, was judged to be in ‘grave and imminent danger’ as the Border Force (BF) and RNLI reacted.\xa0']"
142,"['Well, he’s back.\xa0', 'Nigel Farage has declared that he’s trying to enter parliament at the eighth attempt, standing in Clacton, and that he wants to make this an ‘immigration election’.\xa0', 'Without skipping a beat, much of Britain’s political and media ecosystem leapt up to dance along to his tune.\xa0', 'The Reform UK leader is already generating pretty much wall-to-wall coverage, and the major parties risk only making an impression insofar as they try to compete with his anti-migrant agenda.\xa0\xa0\xa0', 'To the public, this is an election about the NHS and cost of living, but our interests are being absurdly squeezed out of the conversation in favour of an increasingly grubby competition over the small minority of anti-migrant voters who the Tories seem to believe can save them from the oblivion Reform promised.\xa0', 'This morning, Farage has been pushing his insane net-zero immigration policy and a freeze on so-called ‘unskilled’ immigration.', 'Craig Munro breaks down Westminster chaos into easy to follow insight, walking you through what the latest policies mean to you. Sign up here.', 'In terror, the Conservatives sent out James Cleverly to essentially try and match them, announcing a cap on visa numbers, while offering no figures or details on how it would work.\xa0', 'Because it won’t.\xa0', 'For one thing, it’s practically impossible to plan the number of visas issued each year to match the number of people who decide to leave the country.\xa0', 'More importantly, any attempt to do so would exacerbate already dire skills shortages in essential areas like social care, farm work and construction.\xa0', 'These are the jobs Sunak, Starmer and Farage say British people should do instead, but they don’t propose any funding model that would make that even vaguely plausible.\xa0', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'We already cut the rights of foreigners to come and do those jobs by ending free movement and launching a Farage-endorsed ‘pick for Britain’ drive to try to bring British people into food production jobs.\xa0', 'That was a pathetic failure, and in short order the Conservatives brought in sector-specific visas for farm workers and carers and put construction workers on a shortage occupation list for immigration priority, in order to plug the gaps.\xa0', 'The Tories have since cut migrant care workers’ rights so extensively, banning them from including dependants, that we’ve seen a 76% drop in applications for care worker visas in the last few months.\xa0', 'That’s not a typo – a seventy six percent drop in applications for care workers. It is a disaster – and it is patients and elderly people who suffer most.\xa0', 'But the Tories’ new proposals – sparked by the looming spectre of Farage – look set to go even further, worsening the NHS recruitment crisis and seeing waiting lists explode because of the lack of capacity.', 'Yet as the campaign continues, our politicians never seem to be asked to seriously account for this – why would they? This isn’t the ‘NHS election’ it’s the ‘immigration election’, remember?\xa0', 'The positive LibDem proposal to fund better pay and develop a sustainable model for care in our society has been totally ignored, along with similarly progressive proposals from the Greens.\xa0', 'Labour seems to be continuing to hedge their position, relying on both signalling that they’d reduce immigration, but also cutting waiting lists by getting our overworked NHS staff to just work more overtime.', 'It really isn’t good enough that this is the quality of debate about our most important public service and the future health and care needs of our ageing society.\xa0', 'Once again, these are apparently things we should sacrifice at the altar of ever lower immigration numbers, which is presumed to be a good in and of itself, and somehow more important than the cost of groceries, our children’s education, the housing crisis, or anything else.\xa0', 'What’s interesting is how badly politicians of both the main parties and Farage’s Reform come completely unstuck when talking about this issue – they all claim the exact same brand of hostile policies that have failed for the Tories for 14 years would somehow magically work to make immigrants disappear after an election.\xa0', 'Farage casually brings in a dose of bigotry to back up his extreme positions.\xa0', 'His rhetoric against Muslims in particular consists almost entirely of unsubstantiated, inflammatory falsehoods. ', 'In a context where far-right protestors led by Tommy Robinson marched at the weekend in their thousands on our streets against our Muslim communities, it is irresponsible and dangerous in the extreme for our politicians and media not to draw a bold line in the sand against Farage, who has dominated the airwaves for too long.\xa0', 'This is all straight out of the Trump playbook, though, and they’ve seen it work before.\xa0', 'While it’s all horribly depressing, it is also the time, if ever there was one, for everyone to speak up for our values.\xa0', 'We must raise our voices to say we don’t want Farage’s hate echoed by Labour and the Tories.\xa0', 'We want a debate on investment in our public services, safe, inclusive communities, and affordable lives.\xa0', 'We can’t rely on mainstream politicians to make this the ‘cost of living election’ or the ‘public services election’ we need it to be, but our communities will be the ones to pay the price if Farage gets his ‘immigration election’.\xa0']"
143,"['Around 80 migrants with two children and a baby on board have been rescued from the English Channel after a boat capsized.', 'People have been pulled from the water by coastguard and lifeboat crews five miles off the coast of Kent this morning.', 'There have been no deaths so far and it is unclear whether anyone will need to be taken to hospital.', 'Two of those who were in the water are understood to be children and one a six-month old baby.', 'It is not yet clear how the boat got into difficulty. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'A coastguard helicopter and the lifeboats from Dover and Walmer were dispatched for the rescue.', 'A spokesperson for the coastguard said: ‘HM Coastguard has been co-ordinating the response to a small boat incident in the Channel this morning, June 6.', '‘Coastguard helicopters from Lydd and Lee-on-Solent, RNLI lifeboats and Border Force were sent.', '‘The search has now concluded with all people accounted for and back on land.’', 'Border Force vessels Defender and Ranger, along with support ship Taku are on scene.', 'There has been 297 migrants arrive on five separate boats over the last week.', 'This includes 63 on June 3 on one boat and 234 on four boats on June 4.', 'This year alone the number of people travelling to the UK on dangerous boats hit a record for the year in May, with 711 making the crossing.', 'Around 80,000 migrants arrived in the UK since the government struck its Rwanda deal more than two years ago.', 'Legal and illegal migration has been a key topic during this year’s General Election campaign.', 'Sir Keir Starmer accused Rishi Sunak of being ‘the most liberal prime minister we’ve ever had on immigration’.', 'But Sunak said deportation flights to Rwanda would take off ‘in July, but only if I’m your prime minister’.', '‘Stick to our plan and illegal migrants will be on those planes – with Labour they will be out on our streets.’', 'But Sunak said Starmer ‘completely failed’ to meet his pledge to stop small boats crossing the Channel.', 'Starmer said he supported processing asylum claims in third countries ‘if that was possible to do it in compliance with international law’.']"
144,"['A high court found the Home Secretary acted unlawfully by failing to provide thousands of migrants with documents to prove their legal status.', 'Along with charity Ramfel, Cecilia Adjei, a healthcare worker and mother-of-two who has lived in Britain since emigrating from Ghana in 2000, brought the legal challenge against the government.\xa0', 'They claimed hundreds of thousands of migrants may have been affected by the Home Office failing to provide documents showing they were in the country legally while their visa extension applications remained ongoing – a special status known as ‘3C leave’.', 'Ms Adjei and the charity added that some people had their jobs put at risk, while others faced difficulties getting education, healthcare and housing.\xa0', 'The story bears resemblance to the Windrush Scandal, which saw dozens of people wrongly deported from the UK despite having lived the vast majority of their lives in the country.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Announcing their ruling on the more recent case, Judge Cavanagh said yesterday: ‘The evidence clearly establishes that a substantial number of those on section 3C leave suffer real hardship through being unable to provide immediate documentary proof of their immigration status and attendant rights.’', 'He added: ‘The underlying purpose of the legislative framework is that there should be a hostile and unwelcoming environment for those who are unlawfully present and so who are undocumented.', '‘The corollary of this is that those who are lawfully here should not face the hostile environment.\xa0', '‘That can only happen if they are documented.’', 'Speaking with the Guardian, Ms Adjei said: ‘What I went through while waiting for my visa to be extended by the Home Office was really stressful.\xa0', '‘I was unable to prove that I had the right to work so was suspended from my employment as a healthcare support worker twice, without any notice.’', 'She added: ‘I have two children and have to budget very carefully, so we suffered real hardship when my wages suddenly stopped.\xa0', '‘I had to borrow money and visit a food bank just to get by. It was humiliating and scary as I didn’t have any way to prove to my employer that I still had the correct immigration status and the right to work.’']"
146,"['Harry Kane is regarded as one of England’s best players and is gearing up to lead the England team at Euro 2024 taking place in Germany.', 'The 30-year-old sports star is the first player to captain England at four major tournaments and was awarded the Golden Boot following the 2022 World Cup.', '\u200cOff the pitch, the footballer is a devoted family man with childhood sweetheart Kate Goodland and their three children.', '\u200cKate is regularly spotted cheering loudly for Harry at his matches, so there’s no doubt she’ll be heading to Germany to show her support for the Euros 2024. Especially as the family relocated to the country recently following Harry’s transfer to Bayern Munich.', '\u200cBut who is Kate and how did she and Harry first meet?', 'Kate and Harry are childhood sweethearts who were both pupils at Larkswood Primary in east London.', 'They went on to attend Chingford Foundation School, where David Beckham had also attended. An old photo during their school days shows the pair meeting the football legend as teenagers.', 'In 2017, Harry revealed how lucky he felt to have found his childhood sweetheart.', '‘If I was single now and meeting people, you’d never know if they were with you for the right reasons,’ he told the Evening Standard.', '‘Is it the money? You’d never really know. So I’m lucky that I’ve got a childhood sweetheart.’', 'In June 2019 they tied the knot in a still unknown location. But they did share several photos from the day alongside a sweet caption. ', '‘I married my soul mate, one of the best days of my life! Thank you for making my dreams come true, you are perfect,’ Kate wrote at the time. ', 'Yes, the couple have daughters Ivy, seven, born in 2017, and Vivienne, five, born in 2018. They also have sons Louis, three, born in 2020 and finally Henry, who is only nine months old.', 'The couple announed the birth of their son Henry in 2023 with a heartfelt Instagram post. ', '‘Welcome to the world Henry Edward Kane. 20/8/2023. Love you baby boy!’ Harry wrote in the cpation. ', 'His fellow footballers shared their congratulations in the comment including Harry Maguire and Jack Grealish.', 'The couple also share two Labradors, Brady and Wilson.', 'Kate is 31 years old, and currently lives in Germany.', 'Harry previously played for Tottenham, so the family were based in North London in a £17 million pad that boasted a lavish gym and even a man cave.', 'Following Harry’s transfer to German team Bayern Munich, they now live in a £30 million hilltop mansion in an area dubbed the ‘Beverly Hills of Bavaria’.', '‘They’re in school now and have been skiing the last couple of weekends. Just having that has been great for them. ', '‘We’ve met a few of the parents at school and made friends with team-mates’ wives and kids. Slowly but surely it starts to feel like home. People ask what are the big differences, but a lot of the routine is pretty much the same.’', 'After studying sports science, Kate went on to work as a personal trainer, and sometimes shares workout tips and tricks with her nearly 250,000 Instagram followers.', 'Harry has shared his pride at Kate’s academic ability, once saying: ‘She always wanted to do her own thing. She went to university and worked hard.’', 'Kate also recently announced she had collaborated with jewellery brand Loquet London to create a collection in aid of the Harry Kane Foundation.', 'Harry’s recent signing to Bayern Munich means he now earns roughly £400,000 per week.', 'Got a story?']"
149,"['Banksy has hit back at James Cleverly after he labelled his small boat artwork at Glastonbury ‘vile and unacceptable’.', 'The iconic street artist was behind a display which saw an inflatable boat filled with migrant dummies wearing orange life jackets hoisted above the crowd on Friday night.', 'Home secretary Mr Cleverly accused Banksy of ‘trivialising’ small boat migrant crossings in the Channel by arranging for the artwork to be held up while the band Idles played on the Other Stage at Worthy Farm.', 'It was also held aloft during Little Simz’s set on the Pyramid Stage the following night.', 'He told Sky News earlier this week: ‘There are a bunch of people that are joking and celebrating about criminal actions which cost lives.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘People die in the Mediterranean, they die on the Channel. This is not funny. It is vile. This is a celebration of the loss of life in the Channel.', '‘Something like that, I think, is deeply distasteful. I mean children die in the Channel because of the actions of these vile criminals and joking about it and celebrating, I think it is completely unacceptable.’', 'Up Next', 'He added: ‘To joke about it, to celebrate it at a pop festival when there have been children dying in the Channel, is completely unacceptable.’', 'However, Banksy has taken to Instagram today to issue a response to Mr Cleverly alongside a picture of a real sea rescue boat he has funded.', 'The Bristolian artist said: ‘The Home Secretary called my Glastonbury boat “vile and unacceptable” which seemed a bit over the top.', '‘The real boat I fund, the MV Louise Michel, rescued 17 unaccompanied children from the central Med on Monday night.', '‘As punishment, the Italian authorities have detained it – which seems vile and unacceptable to me.’', 'It comes after Mr Cleverly had also reshared a video on X on Sunday of the inflatable boat crowdsurfing and said: ‘Festivalgoers cosplaying as migrants, and celebrating the actions of people smugglers, while they party is awful. ', '‘Whatever your political views, this isn’t something we should trivialise.’\xa0', 'The boat artwork originally appeared while the rock band, also from Bristol, were performing Danny Nedelko, a 2018 release which begins with the lyrics: ‘My blood brother is an immigrant, a beautiful immigrant.’', 'According to The Guardian, the band said the demonstration was devised by Banksy and they were not aware it had happened until after the set had finished.']"
152,"['Hours after the frenzied attack on a group of children and their teacher at a Taylor Swift-themed dance class, Danny Tommo made a video for his thousands of followers.\xa0', 'Tommo, whose real name is Daniel Thomas, is often referred to as the right hand man of English Defence League (EDL) co-founder Tommy Robinson.\xa0', 'He titled the eight-minute clip, which has racked up 67,000 views on Youtube so far, ‘Get ready! We are making plans!’.\xa0', 'In the driver’s seat of a car, he slaps his hands together and becomes increasingly emotional as he urges action after the terrible massacre which resulted in the murder of three young girls – Alice Dasilva Aguiar, nine, Bebe King, six, and Elsie Dot Stancombe, seven – and injured eight other children and two adults at a dance and yoga studio in Southport on Monday afternoon.\xa0', '‘If this fella has come off a boat, s***. Even if he hasn’t come off a boat, I’m ready to go,’ Tommo said. ‘We need to be going to the Home Office and we need to be making sure none of them can leave that building. We need to do something very extreme to make them listen to what we are doing.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘The fact that young, tiny, vulnerable, little kids are being stabbed on the streets of England – is that where we’re at? Is that where we’re at?’', 'Social media was at the time overrun with speculation about the knifeman’s identity, including the misinformation that his name was ‘Ali Al-Shakati’ and that he was a Muslim immigrant who arrived in the UK on a small boat last year. Disgraced internet personality Andrew Tate, who boasts 9.8 million followers on X, falsely called the knifeman an ‘illegal’ immigrant in a video posted to the site as did Robinson.\xa0', 'It has since been revealed that the 17-year-old suspect is Axel Rudakubana, born in Cardiff to Rwandan parents and that he has no known links to Islam.', 'Tommo went on to tell his audience that they had to ‘mobilise’.\xa0', '‘What are we going to do? Wait until one of our kids is gone? Wait until our kids are attacked? It has to go now. We have to literally mobilise…\xa0', '‘Forget work, forget the holidays you have booked, we have to hit the streets and make a huge impact. All around the country. Every city needs to go up. Everywhere.’', 'On Tuesday night, barely 36 hours after the atrocity, hundreds of rioters descended on the grieving seaside town of Southport, targeting their fury on a mosque just a short walk away from the dance class venue. Crowds threw bricks at riot officers as a police van was set alight and homes and businesses damaged. More than 50 officers were injured with 27 requiring hospital treatment.\xa0', 'The chairman of the mosque, Ibrahim Hussein, who was trapped inside, described how the building shook as angry rioters attacked the mosque with bricks and hand-made missiles.\xa0', 'In a statement on Tuesday night, Merseyside Police said they believed supporters of the anti-islam EDL were behind the disorder in Southport. It was reported that a dedicated Telegram channel was set up after the dance group attack with members given a time to congregate outside the mosque with the message ‘English lads rise up’ and instructions for people to ensure their faces were covered.\xa0', 'On Wednesday, Tommo was back with another livestream and made no comment on the violence that had erupted in Southport. Instead, he was calling for more action, across the country.\xa0', '‘Now is not the time for flowers, now is not the time for visuals,’ he said. ‘Now is the time for us to make an impact. There needs to be a reaction in every city. This needs to be a collective action.’', 'He told his viewers that he had travelled to London to protest outside Downing Street and attempted to make it clear he was attending with ‘righteous anger’ but not violence.', '‘They [the government] are the ones who need to feel the full force of our anger tomorrow… Not violence, anger. There’s a distinct difference between violence and anger.’', 'While at the protest, Tommo filmed himself leading the crowds in a chant of: ‘We want our country back.’', 'More than 100 demonstrators at the event were arrested after clashing with police officers. Fireworks and flares were set off near a statue of Winston Churchill and towards the gates of Downing Street.\xa0', 'Chants of “save our kids” as the people hit downing street following the murder of 3 little girls in Southport. pic.twitter.com/NGq5sa1Odk', 'That same night, riots took place across the country. In Hartlepool, a police car was set alight and a mosque came under attack. Businesses had their windows smashed and police were pelted with eggs, bottles and bricks.', 'In Manchester, forty people, who included children and men wearing balaclavas reported the Manchester Evening News, gathered outside a Holiday Inn hotel that was being used to house asylum seekers. They were reported to have thrown bottles, rocks and bricks at police officers armed in riot gear. 220 miles away in Aldershot, people protested outside a hotel, carrying signs with slogans such as ‘no apartments for illegals’ and ‘Deport them, don’t support them’.\xa0', 'These demonstrations were organised on social media in Facebook groups, on Reddit and on the social platform X under hashtags ‘enough is enough’, ‘save our children’ and ‘stop the boats’.\xa0', 'While weather warnings and downpours may have dampened further immediate plans, flyers advertising future demonstrations all over the UK are not difficult to find.', 'During research for this article, Metro uncovered planned events outside an Islamic centre in Belfast, in Liverpool and Glasgow in the weeks ahead. The language used is couched in patriotic paranoia: the protesters are ‘lions’, they are ‘waking up’, they will take back power from the government and ‘its puppet masters’.', 'The comments continue in the same vein – protestors are ‘patriots’, England is the ‘motherland’ and the ‘MSM’ [mainstream media] is not to be trusted.\xa0', 'The prime minister issued a grim warning to the rioters as well as to the social media companies where so many of their events are planned and organised.\xa0', '‘These thugs are mobile. They move from community to community and we must have a policing response that can do the same,’ Keir Starmer said.\xa0', '‘Let me also say to large social media companies and the people who run them: violent disorder, clearly whipped up online, is also a crime. It is happening on your premises and the law must be upheld everywhere.’', 'Just hours earlier, Tommo had threatened further unrest in a post on X, demanding that the government needed to ‘declare a state of emergency and summon Parliament immediately to discuss legislation aimed at halting the slaughter of our children and the alarming rise in serious knife crime.’', 'Failure to act, he warned, would ‘lead to further protests across the UK.’', 'With social media already ablaze regarding protests taking place this weekend, Merseyside Police have issued a statement that they aware of online speculation about future events.', '‘There are extensive plans and considerable police resources in place to quickly deal with anyone intent on causing disorder over the coming days,’ Assistant Chief Constable Jenny Sims said.', '‘We will look to bring to justice every person who is identified committing criminal damage and acts of violence against police staff, officers and our communities.’', 'Metro has gone to Daniel Thomas for comment.']"
153,"['A teenager accused of murdering three girls at a Taylor Swift-themed dance class once appeared in a BBC Children in Need video dressed as Doctor Who, it has emerged.', 'Axel Rudakubana, 17,\xa0was named as the suspect in the stabbings in Southport, in which eight other children and two adults were seriously injured on Monday.', 'Bebe King, six, Elsie Dot Stancombe, seven, and Alice Dasilva Aguiar, nine, were all killed in the attack.', 'A little more than 24 hours after the Cardiff-born appeared at Liverpool Crown Court, footage has emerged showing him in the advert.', 'Aged 12 at the time, Rudakubana dressed in a brown trench coat, blue suit and a tie coming out of a Tardis.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'In the 45-second clip, he tells viewers ‘It’s that time of year again’ before advising on how best to raise money for Children In Need including dressing ‘as every Doctor Who ever’.\xa0', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'He also told viewers ‘You can run from John O’Groats to Land’s End – backwards’.', 'The video – filmed in Blackpool in 2018 – was deleted earlier today by both the BBC and the Ology child talent agency that represented him, the Daily Mail has reported.', 'At the time of filming, Rudakubana had joined the drama group at his school to meet friends, it was reported.', 'This saw him perform on a West End show at the Shaftesbury Theatre, in London.', 'He was also said to be keen on singing, with neighbours in the village of Banks, near Southport, revealing that he was part of a local church choir.', 'A BBC Children in Need spokesperson said, after the video was discovered: ‘Our deepest sympathies go out to everyone impacted by this shocking case.', '‘We have removed the video from all of our platforms out of respect to them.’', 'More and more if being revealed about the defendant in the hours after his name was made public by a judge.', 'Rudakubana turns 18 next week and the judge saw fit to lift restrictions as\xa0he was mindful of ‘misinformation’\xa0that had spread\xa0regarding his identity.', 'A claim that the suspect was an asylum seeker or immigrant has been viewed at least 15.7 million times across X, Facebook, Instagram and other platforms, a Reuters analysis showed.', 'A false claim that he was an undocumented migrant who arrived in a small boat appeared on the website ‘Channel 3 Now’.', 'Andrew Tate on Tuesday shared a picture of a man he said was responsible for the attack with the caption ‘straight off the boat’.', 'But this was also incorrect as it was a picture of a 51-year-old man arrested for a separate stabbing in Ireland last year.', 'Thousands of people online also falsely claimed another man pictured with a knife in French media after an attack in Annecy last June was the Southport suspect.', 'The man, a Syrian refugee, has been in pre-trial detention in France since then.', 'Separately, a Channel 4 analysis showed that 49% of traffic on social media platform X referencing ‘Southport Muslim’ – in reference to an unevidenced claim about the attacker’s religion – came from the US with 30% coming from Britain.']"
155,"['Have your say on these\xa0MetroTalk\xa0topics and more in the comments.', 'The weekend’s violence (Metro, Mon) had British people fighting British people while being policed by British police.', 'British people born in this country are being attacked by other British people born in this country.', 'Why? Over people who would just like to have one chance of the experience of being British. ', 'Hopefully, all politicians and the law will finally wake up and realise that, regardless of race, colour, religion or gender, we are all sick of mobs, masks and knives. Paul, Grays', 'Let us know what you think...', 'Start a text with VIEWS followed by your comment, name and where you live to 65700. Standard network charge applies. Or email mail@ukmetro.co.uk Helpline for Views, Rush-Hour Crush and Good Deed Feed: 020 3615 0600. ', 'Remember, you are more likely to be published if you provide your name and location with your']"
157,"['Have your say on these\xa0MetroTalk\xa0topics and more in the comments.', 'The Southport knife attack broke my heart – children’s lives lost, taken, allegedly, by another child. But the riots that followed were shocking.', 'This was all stoked by misinformation – the truth being that the suspect was born in Cardiff and not a Muslim etc.', 'But that’s not the point. Even if he were an immigrant or a Muslim, why punish everyone else who you think are immigrants, Muslim or non-white?', 'One person or a minority does not represent all. I have the sense to know that the rioters do not represent decent British people.', 'I have spent my whole life here in the UK and have friends from all walks of life. Every colour, every creed. I love that.', 'The Britain I know is kind, beautiful and welcoming. The people I know are good, hard-working and thoughtful.', 'I celebrate Eid but also love the joys that Christmas brings. To be a nation together that moves forward in a positive way, a progressive way, a united way is what our children need.', 'We have a right to protest, to debate, to petition if we want to change what we think is wrong. Why riot and rampage through the streets and cities, hurting others including our police forces, destroying property, looting, trying to set mosques or hotels on fire?', 'It is simple thuggery. It needs to be met with the full force of the law. ', 'Years of austerity, the cost of living crisis, the pandemic and worries for the future need to be addressed. This is what is making it easier to radicalise racial and religious hatred.', 'It’s easier to blame others than to look at policies and words that have done nothing but create an economic winter and invited the hate of ‘others’ – many are worried, anxious and scared.', 'We need to have conversations about policy, jobs and economic concerns. But similarly we need to have communication between communities and religious leaders and go forward to enable better information and understanding.', 'Misinformation can thrive in a vacuum, so we need to counter that so that incitement to violence is demolished.', 'There is a lot to be done. We are mainly a proud, great, tolerant nation – we need to remind ourselves of that and rebuild bridges and ourselves. TS, London', 'Let us know what you think...', 'Start a text with VIEWS followed by your comment, name and where you live to 65700. Standard network charge applies. Or email mail@ukmetro.co.uk Helpline for Views, Rush-Hour Crush and Good Deed Feed: 020 3615 0600. ', 'Remember, you are more likely to be published if you provide your name and location with your']"
161,"['Have your say on these\xa0MetroTalk\xa0topics and more in the comments.', 'Home secretary Yvette Cooper may\u2028plan to remove more failed asylum seekers and illegal immigrants but without action on the driver of immigration, the policy will fail.', 'As Italy’s prime minister Giorgia Meloni has discovered, the lack of native births means that jobs are available and can only be filled from overseas.', 'If Labour is serious about tackling the national obsession with immigration, it will have to reconsider its endorsement of the Tory plan to stop benefits for families with more than two children.', 'If parents are willing to have more than two children they should be encouraged.', 'We are already seeing schools facing closure for lack of pupils. England needs to encourage families to have more babies. Trevor Fisher, Stafford', 'Let us know what you think...', 'Start a text with VIEWS followed by your comment, name and where you live to 65700. Standard network charge applies. Or email mail@ukmetro.co.uk Helpline for Views, Rush-Hour Crush and Good Deed Feed: 020 3615 0600. ', 'Remember, you are more likely to be published if you provide your name and location with your']"
162,"['After rightly condemning the Rwanda plan as a brutal, wasteful gimmick and scrapping it, Labour is now pursuing evidence-free gimmicks of their own on immigration.', 'This morning, Home Secretary\xa0Yvette Cooper\xa0announced yet another round of spending to increase immigration detention and deportations.', 'Cooper said: ‘By increasing enforcement capabilities and returns, we will establish a system that is better controlled and managed, in place of the chaos that has blighted the system for far too long.’', 'But\xa0this ramping up of existing failed\xa0action\xa0will do nothing to stop the boats or address the failures in our immigration system that produce the need for irregular journeys and irregular work.\xa0', 'In my view,\xa0it is costly, vicious and guaranteed to fail – far from the promised change, this sounds a lot like the last government’s disastrous approach.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'There is only one viable long-term approach to reducing irregular journeys by asylum seekers to the UK, be they in small boats, or lorries. That is to provide safe alternative means to access our asylum system, removing the need to use smugglers’ boats.', 'As long as we pretend that we can end the need for people to come to the UK at all to seek protection, and make hostile policies based on pursuing that fantasy, we force people to come without authorisation instead. ', 'The only winners from this approach are the private firms that run our ever-growing border-surveillance, detention and deportation estate, and the smugglers who profit from there being no alternative means for people to reach us than through them.', 'Asylum seekers continue to come – our hostility has no impact on that – but it does increase the risk of death at our border.', 'In 2024 so far, the rate of people dying at our border has soared compared to last year by 450%. Organisations assisting people on the ground in northern France draw a direct line between the increase in deaths, and the increase in police patrols, fences, drones and enforcement along the coast.', 'People seeking to make the crossing now leave from more dangerous parts of the coast in more overcrowded dinghies, in the hope of evading patrols.\xa0The UK helps\xa0fund those French patrols\xa0as part of a deal signed under Rishi Sunak that will see Britain pay £480m over three years.\xa0', 'As far as I can see,\xa0the evidence is that they simply don’t work and we should stop wasting that money at the expense of human lives.', 'The Labour Government is following in the same old approach of chasing the victims and the headlines', 'Creating safe routes to access the UK requires negotiating with France and the EU as a whole to establish systems for regulating migrant journeys and committing to a credible plan for sharing responsibility for those seeking protection. This isn’t an easy task, but it is the only approach that is backed by evidence and is worthy of our humanity.', 'Instead of making an honest assessment of these realities and putting forward a real plan, the Labour Government is following in the same old approach of chasing the victims and the headlines.', 'Shifting yet more resources towards locking up and deporting more people is cruel and does nothing to fix the situation. It costs over £100 per day to hold someone in immigration detention and that money goes straight into the hands of private companies contracted to run our ever-growing detention estate.', 'But while the number of detention places has ballooned over the last 30 years, and is set to grow again following this announcement, governments cannot point to any tangible positive result from increased use of detention. There’s always someone else, churned out by our broken system, to detain.', 'We lock up more people and still people come. We deport more people, and still more people work without authorisation in our country. Because as long as we punish the victims instead of fixing the systems that put them there, the doom-loop driving people into irregular journeys and irregular work continues.', 'This\xa0week, new immigration statistics will be released. They are very likely to show the\xa0continuing trend which has seen numbers\xa0of migrant doctors, nurses, and care workers\xa0go\xa0down, but the numbers arriving in small boats\xa0remain\xa0high.', 'I believe that\xa0Labour is seeking to get ahead of this bad news with today’s tough posturing. But like the last government found to their electoral peril, they have misjudged what ordinary people really want from our immigration system.', 'Labour voters don’t consider immigration a priority. The people who put Yvette Cooper into the Home Office want to move away from the failed hate-fuelling policies of the past, towards humane and evidence-based management of immigration flows.', 'They recognise that protecting refugees is a good thing, and immigration as a whole is necessary. So, we know these policies are not aimed at them.', 'Labour voters are being betrayed in the pursuit of headlines designed to attract people who are convinced by anti-migrant hate.', 'Today, Labour is not just continuing with failed policies that drive a doom-loop for immigrants, they are promoting the idea that immigration is bad and needs brutal, expensive action to enforce it away.', 'In the wake of racist violent mobs attacking asylum seekers, mosques and people of colour on our streets, it is an irresponsible validation of the idea we can or should simply get rid of the immigrants we don’t want.', 'As long as that narrative persists from our mainstream politicians, it is Nigel Farage and Tommy Robinson who are banking all the political gain.']"
163,"['At 8am on Tuesday, December 20 last year, I got on the bus I shared with 30 other young women to ride to university. ', 'It was the end of my third semester, and we were due to take our biochemistry exam.', 'But a mile into the journey, the Taliban stepped out into the road and stopped us. Staring at their guns, everyone froze and went silent.', 'A voice broke our thoughts, shouting: ‘All of you, get out of the bus, or I will blow holes right through your heads.’', 'Panicking, we got out and started walking. I didn’t go home. All I was thinking about was not missing my exam. I walked for an hour to get to the university. ', 'Arriving at the gate, I was not alone. There were hundreds of other girls like me who had come to the university, who had chosen what they wanted – not what they were told. Staff opened the gate and said ‘let’s take your last exam before they reach here and close the university’.', 'We took exam papers, and everyone tried to finish it as quickly as they could. It was to be the last day of school.', 'And with that, I lost my very basic right to education.', 'I spend days thinking ‘what if’. What if I was taking my classes – would I be a step closer to my dream of becoming a scientist? Would I know more about biochemistry, my source of curiosity? ', 'As days pass, I realise more and more that we didn’t only lose our right to education, but it took hope from us. And that hurts the most.', 'My favorite memory is the first day I was dressed in all white clothes in my biophysics class. When the professor asked a question, I raised my hand and responded. She smiled and referred to me as ‘doctor’ – Dr Tamima. I often wonder, will that be the first and last time I’m called a doctor?', 'So remember, when the world reads or hears about the Taliban’s misogynistic policies against women in Afghanistan, it’s not just news or numbers. It’s our basic desires, dreams and hopes that are shattered, and we are dehumanised. It hurts. It’s awfully painful and we despair.', 'These limitations have increased the rates of forced marriages and domestic violence. Many of my friends are pushed to get married by their families as they don’t see any future for them. In our chat groups, everyone suffers depression and as days pass, they lose their hope to look for a better future.', 'I had proudly received a scholarship from a programme designed to support women to study STEM, but last October, on the day of the national university entrance exam (the Kankor), the Taliban didn’t allow women to choose STEM majors or journalism. ', 'They said they weren’t fit for women. We started panicking, but still tried to remain hopeful – which became harder as they went on to ban schools, employment and freedom of movement, all de-facto denial of allowing girls to continue university.', 'Still, all the girls I know were top of their classes as the scholarships were fully dependent on academic excellence. I saw a leader and innovator in each of them. Everyone strived for success and to change the gender gap in STEM majors in Afghanistan. We knew we lacked enough role models in this field, and we were all determined to become the ones to change that.\xa0', 'Now, we are all at home without any future, like hundreds of thousands of girls who were going to universities across Afghanistan. I was going to a private university that was a women-only school. Our professors, administration team and even security staff were women. ', 'There is no justification – based on what is claimed in the media at least [which is now controlled by the Taliban and repeats arguments against female education] – for my university to be closed. And schools in Afghanistan were always segregated.\xa0', 'The Taliban basically don’t believe in women’s rights, it is not in their ideology. They see us as less of a human. Anything else they say for the international media is just false excuses.', 'Every day we miss school feels like years, and it will be so hard to catch up if nothing is done about it. So, I demand that education institutions use technology to provide access to education to us. A quality education. Please use creative ways to do it.', 'And I can’t stress enough that simply opening the doors of schools is not the solution. If the Taliban reopen schools, the curriculum will be set by them. They believe that the education and training of women is a Western culture and should not be implemented. The Taliban have said they intend to make changes to the curriculum so that it conforms to their point of view and mentality.', 'I want to be a scientist, not study terrorism and get brainwashed by the Taliban.', 'So if you want to advocate for us, hear us.', 'We don’t want the Taliban’s schools. We want our universities back.']"
166,"['Then – just two months later in June last year – I was forced to move back home too. That means there’s now six of us living under the same roof.', 'So how did this happen?', 'My parents have four grown-up children but only three of us have managed to live independently (myself not included), which meant my parents were fortunate enough to have three spare bedrooms.', 'Due to the sensitive nature of her story and her active case with the Home Office, I am not allowed to say much about Jenny or how she came to live with my parents, but what I can tell you is that she is an incredibly strong woman.', 'She has been in the UK for many years and – along with around 117,000 other unresolved asylum cases, as of September last year – is awaiting a decision from the Home Office before she can live independently here. Despite lawyers and constant chasing, the repetitive response of ‘we are looking at her case’ leaves a frustrating open-ended uncertainty for both Jenny and my parents.', 'That’s the first example of how the Government is failing a person living under the same roof as me.', 'Moved by the extensive media coverage – and connected through friends of friends on Facebook – my parents decided to host two young Ukrainian women, Kate and Daryna.', 'Daryna – who was studying law – now works at a restaurant, while Kate – who is an interior designer – has a job in a café.', 'They have found it difficult to settle in the UK and the constant news cycle about events back home is something they cannot pull themselves away from. But they are doing incredibly well to live away from their country, loved ones and friends.', 'It just so happened that Jenny, Kate and Daryna all moved in during the same week.', 'Now we come to my own story.', 'We loved our home and community and were extremely upset when this happened.', 'By June, we had to move out because, even though former PM Theresa May promised in 2019 to scrap no-fault evictions, that hasn’t come to fruition yet. That means that renters are still getting turfed out of their homes without much protection.', 'The housing crisis in the UK continues to be one of the biggest challenges this country faces. Example two of the Tories failing us.', 'I am incredibly lucky to have the fallback option of my parents’ accommodation in London, but I had not planned to move back into my childhood bedroom as a 27-year-old young professional with three new comparative strangers as housemates.', 'Nevertheless, by June of last year, my childhood home was back to six people under one roof – just without any of my siblings.', 'In many ways, the dynamic is similar to how you might imagine life in university halls or a 90s sitcom to be – a mix of people with little in common living together. We share the occasional meal or film night, but mostly we have our own lives.', 'Jenny loves cooking, going to church on Sundays and watching Ghanaian Christian worship music on YouTube. It has been a joy to live with her these last six months and she makes a delicious chicken stew.', 'Kate is often on FaceTime to her husband who is in Ukraine and she loves a good Netflix binge. While Daryna has thrown herself into dancing lessons from a Ukrainian teacher in Camden and has discovered Love Island.', 'Like any housemates, we have frustrations over the shower being free and whose turn it is to take out the bins.', 'But over the past six months, the mix of cultures, personalities and more has been incredibly eye-opening. When asked by Hinge dates ‘Who do you live with?’, my answer never fails to surprise.', 'The Government’s rhetoric around refugees, asylum seekers and those seeking sanctuary in the UK is inhumane', 'But Jenny, Daryna and Kate should all have more support through social workers giving them clear guidance and transparency on plans about how the Government will fulfil their promises to help them live independently.', 'Jenny, meanwhile, lives off around £40 a week provided by a charity, as she is not eligible to receive the same benefits as the Ukrainian women.', 'I feel it is important to recognise the stark difference in the support the Home Office offers Jenny compared to our Ukrainian guests. Examples of this include their visa statuses, right to work and other financial benefits. The differences are not only in government policy but also in our society and our attitudes to those seeking asylum.', 'While my parents have repeatedly said how fortunate they were to have had amazing support from Housing Justice to guide them on how to navigate the multiple unknowns that come with hosting someone in need, they did not receive this same training from the Government through the ‘Homes for Ukraine’ scheme.', 'The Tories promised the scheme would support hosts and help refugees to live independently in the UK. But almost a year on, fellow hosts at support groups we attend all share the same opinion – the Government has broken its promise, failed to provide adequate guidance or support, and left local councils to clear up the mess.', 'There is now talk about a deficit of host families who are willing to take people, which is arguably due to the open-ended nature of the scheme.', 'So what needs to change?', 'Those in charge need to do more to explain what they can offer in terms of helping Ukrainians to move on from host families and settle in the UK, as the conflict shows no end in sight. They need to work with landlords and local councils to support Ukrainians to find suitable independent living and subsidise it where needed.', 'The housing crisis in the UK also means that Kate and Daryna are forced to join the rest of us in the race to find a flat on SpareRoom, with ludicrous rates or being made to take rooms without contracts or seeing the spaces first.', 'This is daunting enough for me and I have lived in London my whole life, let alone if I was a refugee who had only been here for less than a year.', 'We need clear guidance from the Government on the ‘Homes for Ukraine’ scheme and to learn how ministers plan to provide long-term solutions to the problems that have arisen.', 'On top of this, the Home Office needs to hurry up and progress Jenny’s case so she can finally live independently after 20 years. We are grateful to our local MP for helping us apply pressure, but the backlog is unacceptable.', 'My parents have been incredibly generous to open their home but they expect the Government to deliver on their promises, which I have learnt first-hand there are countless ways they are not.', 'People in this country – whether they were born here or not – deserve so much more.']"
168,"['A human rights lawyer is donning a very jazzy get-up to try and raise £120,000 for charity.', 'Freya Morgan, 27, is running a total of 2,500km before June to help refugees and asylum seekers.', 'After finding out a third of people in immigration centres are on suicide watch, she knew she wanted to do something to help the charity Bail for Immigration Detainees.', 'They aim to end immigration detention in the UK through provision of legal advice, information and representation alongside research, policy advocacy and strategic litigation.', 'And Freya certainly look the part during her challenge, opting for a very shiny disco ball costume.\xa0']"
169,"['A 50-year-old woman who died of severe malnutrition was found to have had an unborn foetus lodged in her abdomen for over nine years.', 'The woman, a refugee originally from the Congo, visited doctors in New York complaining of stomach cramps, indigestion and a gurgling sound after eating.', 'Scans later revealed she had a calcified foetus, also known as a ‘stone baby’, lodged inside her intestines, which had been causing her to suffer severe bowel obstruction and subsequent malnutrition.', 'The foetus was attributed to a miscarriage she had suffered nine years earlier, which would have been the woman’s ninth child.', 'However, rather than seeking treatment the woman instead blamed her ailments on witchcraft, claiming to have had a ‘spell’ cast on her by a local witch before she came to the US.', 'She died from her condition 14 months after arriving in the United States.', 'The extremely rare phenomenon, known as a lithopedion, has only been recorded 290 times throughout history, with the first dating back to France in 1582.', 'It occurs when a foetus begins to develop in the abdomen rather than the womb, causing it to calcify and ‘turn to stone’ once the pregnancy becomes unviable, compressing major organs and restricting the mother’s nutrient absorption.', 'For this woman, the ‘stone baby’ kept compressing her intestine, causing major blockages which meant her body was no longer able to absorb vital nutrients- leading to starvation.', 'Dr Waseem Sous, an internal medicine expert at SUNY Upstate Medical University who reported the case, said the patient ‘declined intervention due to fear of surgery and elected for symptom monitoring.’', '‘Unfortunately, she passed away due to severe malnutrition in the context of recurrent bowel obstruction due to the lithopedion and continued fear of seeking medical care.’', 'The case study was revealed in a medical report in the journal BMC Women’s Health this week.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'The mother’s early life had seen her uprooted twice, moving from Congo to Burundi and then Tanzania because of conflicts.', 'In Tanzania, she settled down and had eight children, delivered naturally. Three died shortly after childbirth.', 'She visited a doctor’s clinic during her ninth pregnancy after noticing that her baby was no longer moving, where medics told her the baby had no heartbeat and recommended that she try to pass it naturally at home.', 'If this did not work, they said, she should return in two weeks.', 'The woman followed the instructions, but when she returned to the clinic she was accosted by people outside accusing her of ‘evil work’ and ‘killing the baby’, which convinced her not to seek any medical help.', 'She then spent nine years carrying the dead foetus inside her, and had no contact with medics until receiving a health check six months before being resettled to the United States.', 'Doctors offered her surgery to remove the mass, but she refused, and said the condition was the result of a curse someone placed on her in Tanzania.', 'She told doctors: ‘I will let you know when I am ready; I am not scared of death.’', 'Medics did eventually convince her to take antibiotics to help with her stomach complaints and pills to lower her blood pressure, but the woman kept refusing surgery.', 'During another appointment, she simply said: ‘I just do not have it in my heart to do.’', 'The woman passed away from severe malnutrition a short time later.']"
170,"['I couldn’t help but smile as I watched Ali* determinedly working up a sweat at his first kickboxing lesson.', 'The 15-year-old refugee was found at a local petrol station on Malpas Road, Newport before he was placed into my care in 2015.', 'When I first met him, he suffered from confidence issues, but ended up telling me he was interested in kickboxing – so I took him for his first ever class. And he absolutely loved it.', 'Although his English wasn’t great, he was clearly in his element and enjoyed being in a sporting environment. His level of concentration was remarkable and he never took his eyes off the instructor.', 'After a few sessions, he felt confident to go alone and even began to make friends. It’s these sorts of experiences that allow people to grow – especially when their previous circumstances wouldn’t have allowed them to.\xa0', 'It’s why I do what I do, at the age of 62 – fostering children in my local area for the last 10 years, as well as refugees from countries such as Eritrea, Iran, Iraq and Albania.', 'Before this, I was a window cleaner but suffered a horrific injury in 2009 that changed my life. My leg was busted, and I was bedridden for five months.', 'Obviously, the injury was devastating, but it gave me a chance to re-evaluate my life and decide what I really wanted to do.\xa0', 'Fostering has always been at the back of my mind, for as long as I can remember. I have four children, 13 grandchildren and I am the eldest of three siblings, so looking after kids felt like a breeze to me.', 'After lots of research into how it’d work, I decided to go for it in 2009. I got in touch with my local council and went through the application process, which took a few months.', 'The first child I took under my care was a 15-year-old boy from my area who had learning difficulties and was neglected by his parents. I was nervous at the time but the same feelings apply today; you’re always fearful of making a mistake with someone so vulnerable.\xa0', 'I provided him with love and support and began to see the boy smile and show his true personality.\xa0', 'That’s why I continued to do it because I saw the difference it was making to people’s lives. Before I began taking in refugees, I looked after more than 50 kids from my local area.', 'In 2015, I had a call from the council to ask if I wanted to look after a refugee on a short-term basis.\xa0', 'I thought it was a great opportunity, I was nervous and excited but it was a chance for me to meet people from different religions, cultures and backgrounds. ', 'Ali – from Iraq – was the first refugee that came to live with me.', 'Initially, it was tough to communicate with him due to the fact his English was very limited, but we adapted. We started with gestures, basic phrases and pictures on Google – but as Ali learned more English, it became easier over time.', 'The experience was completely different to taking on local children as there were so many different things that I had to consider, such as buying halal meat and providing prayer mats and other religious material. It was an eye opener for me because I hadn’t looked after refugees before.\xa0', 'He ended up staying for over three years. He left last year, and has since gone on to set up a successful business buying and selling cars; he even got married and had a child, which he wanted to name after me, but his family objected!', 'We speak regularly and he credits me for caring for him during the years he needed it the most. It’s the greatest feeling of all when you know you’ve helped someone set up their life.\xa0', 'Since then, I have fostered seven other refugee boys. Currently, I have three in my care – from Eritrea, Iran and Iraq, all aged between 17 and 19. I see it as a family, and it’s nice to have a house full of people.', 'I try to provide the boys with opportunities, particularly on activities they find interesting. They enjoy playing football with nearby teams, which keeps them busy and allows them to integrate into society.\xa0', 'However, over time, they become independent and enjoy doing things on their own – I’m just there as a helping hand.\xa0', 'One of the boys is constantly exercising and is a member at the town gym, while another is happy to pray in his room. I would liken it to a typical family, where teenagers prefer to do things on their own terms.', 'We often talk about the horrific situations they have been forced to flee. It’s unbelievably sad, but it strengthens my resolve to keep doing what I do.', 'One of the boys who was in my care had to leave his home country in the Middle East for Wales as his father had been arrested and his life was at risk. He couldn’t get hold of his family. It was so traumatic for him.', 'Sadly, these stories are all too relevant among refugees from war-torn countries.\xa0', 'At the end of 2021, over 36million young people were displaced globally because of conflict and violence – and more than 100 young refugees come to Wales each year, seeking shelter and support.', 'In 2019, the Welsh Government declared that it would become the world’s first ‘Nation of Sanctuary’, Wales has a proud history of helping those in need and over the last year, has shown great generosity in support of Ukrainian refugees.', 'As the refugee crisis intensifies, Foster Wales is encouraging the continuation of this generosity to ensure all children seeking sanctuary in Wales are given the opportunity to thrive.\xa0', 'Except, there aren’t enough hosts. Especially as the war in Ukraine continues, there’s only going to be more refugees displaced and in need of help.', 'The benefits and the satisfaction you get from helping young vulnerable kids is amazing. Fostering has helped me change so many lives, you help them get education for the first time and access to healthcare – all things we take for granted.\xa0', 'I am a devout Christian and becoming a foster carer has allowed me to learn about different faiths and religions, which I may never have done otherwise. It’s something I’m not looking to give up any time soon and I want to see others give it a chance.', 'If you have the space in your home and are looking to take up a new challenge, I’d encourage you to get involved.', '*Name has been changed to protect the identity.']"
171,"['Afghanistan’s tumultuous history has hurt the nation’s women the hardest.', 'Already suffering from the fallout of war and poverty, women’s rights took a further hit when the Taliban took power in 2021 and women were banned from going to school, having jobs and even accessing basic healthcare.', 'The nation was named the most dangerous country to be female, by a 2011 poll by the Thomson-Reuters Foundation and today, women are still routinely discriminated against, abused and persecuted. They are banned from universities and charity jobs. Violence is common.', 'Pregnancy is hugely dangerous in Afghanistan. But a new trainee midwife programme that has been spearheaded by the U.N. Refugee Agency with a local NGO could change that. ', 'The programme sees young women train for two years in the provincial capital hospital, after which they will return home to help the women in the community.', 'One 21-year-old trainee says: ‘Our society is facing many problems in terms of healthcare. Even with the new generation of technology, we are still witnessing mothers and children dying. ', 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', ""Get ready for Decathlon's RunDays – 10 events across the UK to keep your running era alive"", ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'Drop waist dresses are everywhere at the moment — here are some of our favourites', '9 best BBQs and pizza ovens from Dunelm you can use this weekend – and start from £15', '‘This situation motivated me to study the midwifery course in order to serve my people.’']"
173,"['Three civilian women have died after a Russian missile struck a Ukrainian shelter for people out of their homes, local officials say.', 'The one-storey building in Kostiantynivka, eastern Ukraine, is one of many designated ‘invincibility points’ providing places to sleep, water, electricity and other essentials for families fleeing active battle zones.', 'Photos shared by local emergency workers show the shelter reduced to rubble, with a mattress protruding from the debris.', 'One of the deceased had fled the nearby city of Bakhmut, one of the conflict’s main frontlines, where tens of thousands of homes have been destroyed.', 'Up Next', 'Another person was pulled alive from the rubble, while two more suffered injuries in the same blast.', 'Authorities said a total of seven civilians were killed overnight on Thursday.', 'President Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s office said two of them died in heavy shelling in villages around the Sumy region to the north, where homes, a council building and a school were hit.', 'Russian officials did not comment on the attacks, which have yet to be independently verified. ', 'There are not known to be any military facilities near the destroyed shelter which might have been a primary target.', 'Western intelligence services have repeatedly said Russia’s military tactics include the deliberate bombing of civilian targets aimed at breaking the defenders’ morale.', 'More than 5.3 million people remain internally displaced by the war, which is now in its 13 month, according to the International Organisation for Migration.']"
174,"['Two people have been arrested on suspicion of assault after clashes erupted outside a hotel that houses refugees in Cornwall.', 'Around 20 demonstrators held signs with phrases like ‘Stop immigration now’ and ‘Close migrant hotels’\xa0outside the Beresford Hotel in Newquay on Sunday.', 'But they were soon outnumbered by 150 counter-protesters who declared asylum seekers welcome in Britain.', 'These crowd members fought back with placards reading ‘Cornwall has no place for racists but we welcome refugees’ and ‘UK government must provide safe passage for refugees’.', 'Up Next', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Footage from the scene showed groups of police officers holding back protesters as violence broke out.', 'Alongside the two taken into custody, two others were issued with dispersal anti-social behaviour notices – although police said the majority of people acted peacefully.', 'It comes after police moved to shut down rumours that a man staying at the Beresford Hotel had been charged with sexual assault.', 'A man has been charged with raping a woman on a local beach – but any suggestion that he is linked with the hotel is ‘categorically untrue’ and will only fuel community tension, a statement said.', 'Cornwall police commander, Chief Supt Ben Deer, said last week: ‘There has been a number of speculative social media posts suggesting the man charged in relation to this offence was a resident at the\xa0Beresford\xa0Hotel\xa0in Newquay which is currently housing asylum seekers in the town.', '‘This has led to further posts which have suggested that women and children in the town are at risk from attack by those asylum seekers living at the hotel.', '‘I would like to put on record that this is categorically untrue and the individual charged with the offence is not a resident at the\xa0Beresford Hotel.', '‘Comments suggesting offences are being committed by those staying at the hotel\xa0are untrue and unnecessarily raising community tension.’', 'Speaking before the protest at the weekend, Chief Supt Deer asked people to ‘think about their comments and actions and the unhelpful rumour, myth and speculation this builds’.', 'The issue of immigration has been highly divisive in Newquay and Sunday’s demonstration followed one on Saturday.', 'Another in February also saw supporters and opponents of asylum seekers line the streets.', 'At the time, Chief Supt Deer said the incident had ‘caused significant concern in the community’.', '‘My officers and staff have been making efforts to increase visibility in order to ensure residents and visitors to Newquay feel safe and secure’, he said.\xa0', 'He added that ‘if proactive policing is required to safeguard the Newquay community’, this would be addressed.']"
175,"['My mother and uncle grew up in a comfortable Jewish home in Halle (near Leipzig) in Germany – along with their older sister, Eva, and their parents.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'She did all the usual things – played with her dolls, read books avidly, and learnt to swim in the river. The family was not very religious but kept the main Jewish festivals.\xa0', 'My grandmother described him as haggard and listless. She started seeking safety urgently.\xa0', 'She contacted an old school friend – an English-Jewish woman called Mary, who sprung into action. She arranged for Hanna and Hans to travel to England on the Kindertransport.\xa0', 'This was a new scheme set up after Kristallnacht by several British charities – authorised by the UK Government – with the aim of saving 10,000 Jewish children.', 'Mary also arranged a nursing permit for Eva, who – at 17 – was too old for the Kindertransport, as well as a domestic visa for my grandmother.\xa0', 'But there was no visa available for my grandfather because, at 51, he was too old. Three years later, he was deported and murdered in Auschwitz concentration camp.\xa0', 'On 5 July 1939, Mary met Hanna and Hans off the Kindertransport at Liverpool Street Station. With the help of the West London Synagogue, she arranged for them each to go to boarding school in Folkestone and Farnham.\xa0', 'They gradually learnt English, made friends and settled in – both to school and to English life. Eva arrived a few weeks earlier and my grandmother in mid-August just before the Second World War started. They both settled in London.\xa0', 'What Hanna did not know until many years later, was that a charity was monitoring her welfare. The Central British Fund for German Jewry (now World Jewish Relief) kept track of thousands of Jewish children who arrived on the Kindertransport.\xa0', 'Before her death, World Jewish Relief gave Hanna the file they had kept on her 75 years earlier.\xa0', 'From this file, I can see that over a period of seven years, World Jewish Relief sent visitors and provided welfare reports. They kept track of her family members.\xa0', 'They made sure all aspects of her police registration and immigration plans were up to date. They also checked on her religious education.\xa0\xa0', 'Between 1940 and 1947, World Jewish Relief was in contact with Hanna and Hans regularly. Over these years, there were 11 entries in Hanna’s file and 21 entries in Hans’. They each changed addresses five times over this period; World Jewish Relief kept track of every single house move.', 'Contrast this with the Home Office, who has lost contact with over 200 children seeking asylum. The asylum-seeking children were in hotels, and the Home Office could not keep track of them.', 'The Minister for Immigration, Robert Jenrick, told MPs in January: ‘Over 4,600 unaccompanied children have been accommodated in hotels since July 2021. There have been 440 missing occurrences and 200 children remain missing, 13 of whom are under 16 years of age and only one of whom is female.’\xa0', 'Green MP Caroline Lucas called it ‘horrific’, while Labour’s Yvette Cooper said it was a ‘total dereliction of duty’.\xa0', 'I felt really upset when I heard that so many children seeking protection in the UK had gone missing. I felt that the least the Government could do was to keep them safe.', 'Placing children as young as 10 in hotels without ‘appropriate protection and humanitarian assistance’ breaches the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.', 'The reality is simple. I believe this government is refusing to protect these children and is creating a de facto hierarchy in their treatment because of their migration status.\xa0', 'In a time when records were kept in pen and ink and all correspondence was by post, a charity was able to keep track of thousands of children moving regularly around the UK.\xa0They monitored their welfare in great detail.', 'Yet in this digital age, the Home Office lost track of over 200 children who were in a few hotels supposedly in Home Office care.', 'Universality – the concept that human rights apply equally to all people – is a core principle that arose as a direct response to Jewish experiences in the Holocaust. Every child must be protected.', 'Hence, we at René Cassin – the Jewish voice for human rights – hope to see an end to this discriminatory system and support the coalition of children’s charities, the Refugee and Migrant Children’s Consortium’s recommendations.', 'These include an increase in funding for local authorities to employ more specialised social workers, a network of foster carers dedicated to caring for these children, and an urgent independent inquiry about the use of hotel accommodation.\xa0\xa0', 'Hanna went on to become an English teacher and later taught English to refugees. She felt very strongly about the rights of refugees.', 'She died in April 2018 at the age of 89, but she would have been as shocked – as I am – to know how lightly the Home Office now takes responsibility for children.\xa0', 'In fact, she would have known how it felt to be in a strange country, struggling to work out what was happening, fighting language barriers and uncertainty.\xa0\xa0', 'Today’s children deserve better.', 'Join René Cassin for a panel discussion taking us from the Kindertransport to the present day, with panel speakers including Debora Singer MBE, Lauren Starkey and Jennine Walker. You can get tickets here.']"
177,"['The Irish Refugee Council has condemned recent anti-migrant protests after a camp for homeless asylum seekers was set on fire.', 'Nick Henderson, the council’s chief executive, described the act, which took place in Dublin on Friday, as ‘shocking, disgraceful and deeply distressing’.', 'There was tension during the protest at Upper Sandwith Street after pro- and anti-asylum seeker demonstrators faced off, separated by a line of public order gardaí. ', 'But some time after the demonstration ended, the fire brigade was alerted to a blaze at the scene and it appears the entire encampment has been destroyed.', 'Mr Henderson has called for homeless migrants to be put up in temporary accommodation as he believes they are now being targeted by the far right.', 'He added: ‘We have grave concerns for people’s immediate safety. ', '‘Over the last two or three months there wasn’t necessarily a particular place in the city where people were congregating.', '‘That’s changed in the last few weeks and now people feel that there was safety in numbers, that they could camp, they could be closer to people in the same situation as themselves.', '‘That’s changed now, they’re clearly targeted by the far right and their supporters.’', 'Mr Henderson added that people who come to Ireland seeking asylum and can’t provide for themselves are legally entitled to accommodation – but says the system has ‘broken down’ in recent months.', 'He said there has been an ‘abdication of clear statutory responsibility around housing, adding that ‘what happened in reality is that people have in many ways had to fend for themselves’.']"
179,"['Almost two years have passed since the fall of Kabul since the Taliban swept to power in Afghanistan women’s pleas for help continue to echo.', 'Baroness Helena Kennedy KC, who helped rescue 103 women on the group’s ‘kill list’, has revealed how she still receives ‘tragic, terrible text messages’ from those trapped in the country.', 'The human rights lawyer launched an\xa0urgent appeal\xa0to provide support to judges, lawyers, women’s rights activists, human rights defenders and their families at risk in Afghanistan and in need of a safe haven abroad as the tragedy unfolded.', 'A total of 508 people escaped on three flights the Scottish-born Labour peer had arranged\xa0– but she said the Tories’ ‘dog whistle politics’ on immigration mean she can no longer bring people to safety\xa0in the UK.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Hitting out at the government, Baroness Kennedy said: ‘It was possible then, then of course it was not possible any more.', '‘I have still got women sending me the most tragic, terrible text messages and phoning me at all hours, saying “please help me, I am hiding in my basement, I didn’t get on your planes in 2021 because my mother was dying, I couldn’t leave at the time, but now they are after me”.', '‘But all I can say is “I’m sorry, they don’t provide visas to Britain from Afghanistan, you have to go to another country, Pakistan is the nearest, you have to get your kids across that border”.’', 'Condemning the shortage of legal routes for those fleeing persecution to come to the UK, she stressed that is why ‘quite a number’ of those who attempt to arrive on small boats across the Channel are originally from Afghanistan.', '‘Sometimes they are Afghanis who have worked for us,’ Baroness Kennedy added.', '‘Sometimes they are Afghanis of a particular minority called the Hazara, who get slaughtered as soon as the Taliban look at them.’', 'Rishi Sunak has made a commitment to ‘stop the boats’ as one of his key pledges to voters, with the government pursuing a crackdown on refugees entering the country illegally in the Illegal Migration Bill.', 'Baroness Kennedy claimed the legislation constitutes a ‘full frontal dismissal of the rule of law’.', 'She said: ‘I am a lawyer, and I believe in the rule of law. I think rather like Boris (Johnson) being dismissive or applying the rules to himself, I am afraid that has spilled into the behaviour of other ministers.', '‘I am afraid that the Home Office in this is prepared to break international law on the refugee convention, the convention on the rights of the child, the convention on the elimination of discrimination against women, because they are prepared to deport pregnant women.', '‘One of the fundamentals in Scots law and English law is the right to due process, that before you lose any of your rights that you should have the opportunity of putting your case.', '‘These people are not being allowed to put their own case as to why they might be entitled to asylum or refugee status here.’', 'She described the proposals as ‘pretty disgusting’, and added: ‘It is being done because this is a government running out of policy and running out of road.', '‘You do have to have sensible policies around immigration and what we need in terms of immigration.’']"
181,"['Harry Styles teamed up with the International Rescue Committee (IRC) to bring three Ukrainian refugees along to his Poland show over the weekend.', 'Maryna, her 13-year-old daughter Daria and her friend Daria Kathina fled Ukraine in 2022 in the aftermath of Russia’s invasion and now live in Sosnowiec, Poland.', 'The three women had a blast at the show, which was part of the 29-year-old former One Directioner’s global tour, Love On Tour.', 'Speaking about her experience at Warsaw’s PGE Narodowy Stadium on Sunday night, Maryna raved: ‘Since being forced to leave our home in Ukraine last year, it’s been a challenge adjusting to life in a new country – especially for my daughter, Daria, and my 10-year-old son.’', 'The doting mum added: ‘I’m so grateful to Harry Styles and the IRC, which has supported me to pursue my dream career in Poland, for giving us the chance to forget our worries for a night and sing and dance at the concert.’', 'Maryna – who dreams of becoming a tram driver – and Daria left their hometown of Mykolayiv in July 2022 and were lucky to find safety in Sosnowiec and start to rebuild their lives with the support of IRC.', 'Maryna, Daria and Daria Kathina are among almost six million Ukrainians who have been forced to flee their homes and seek safety in another country.', '\u200cIt comes after Harry was left flustered by a fan at his Belgium gig.', 'At one point during the show, Harry\xa0approached the screaming crowds\xa0across the barrier and asked for one woman’s name.', 'The pair enjoyed a jovial interaction with Harry discovering it was her birthday and probing for more details about the date and her age.\xa0', 'On learning she was 26, turning 27, the Watermelon Sugar singer wanted to know how her 26th year had been and whether she had any goals and dreams for her next year.\xa0', 'The eager fan took the opportunity to express her Harry-themed desires to the popstar causing him to turn away laughing.', 'Wandering off, he raised the microphone to his lips and teased: ‘It’s not your birthday yet… or is it’, following which the crowd let out an almighty roar.\xa0', 'He explained he was only joking with the delighted fan but reminded her it was a ‘family show’, once again playfully teasing, ‘or is it?’', 'Got a story?']"
186,"['I shivered as I sat quietly in the back of a refrigerated lorry all by myself.', 'I’d snuck on while in Calais. Thankfully, after five or six hours, the vehicle finally stopped and the doors flung open so I jumped out.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Girls were not allowed to go to school, boys could only get a strict Islamic education in the madrassa – the Islamic school attached to the mosque – and we could not play music or games. Life was very hard.', 'We lived under curfew and with the constant threat of violence. In fact, a neighbour left his house outside of curfew hours and was shot dead because the Taliban thought he was a spy.', 'At the age of 13, my younger brother and I went to school in the madrassa. My parents sent us, as there was no other place to get an education in the area.', 'But one day – after we had been there for about six months – my brother and I were taken to the basement of the mosque and were shown weapons and explosives. They told us that we would be trained as fighters and would go to war.', 'Some of us would have guns, while some would be trained to use suicide belts to kill ourselves and others. The Taliban said that we would be doing God’s work, but I knew that wasn’t true.', 'The thought of being forced to fight and kill made me feel sick. I knew we had to get away.', 'We looked for our house, but it had been totally destroyed and there was no sign of our family – including my father, mother and my younger siblings. My brother and I hugged each other and cried.', 'To this day, we have never found out what happened to them.', 'Not knowing what else to do, we made our way to my uncle’s house in another nearby village. Having run away from the Taliban himself, he knew we had to get away.', 'People sometimes ask me: ‘Why did you choose the UK?’ The truth is that I did not choose it. I had no idea where I was going.', 'My uncle told the smuggler to get us to the UK as he knew Afghan people who were already there. But I did not know about that at the time.', 'The journey was very difficult and the smugglers were aggressive if we did not follow their instructions. We were scared of them and often cold, hungry and tired.', 'We travelled at night and tried to sleep during the day. Sometimes we walked and other times we were put on buses or in the backs of lorries.', 'Thankfully, we both made it across successfully.', 'After an initial interview and processing, the Home Office put me in the care of Kent County Council and housed me in a flat with some other young people my age.', 'I found it very difficult to look after myself at first because I did not know how to cook or make the money I was provided with last.', 'Like many of the other young people in my situation, we really struggled to sleep properly for a long time. After travelling at night for an extended time, it’s very difficult to adjust.', 'It took a long time to find my brother again, but we were eventually reunited after our solicitors got chatting one day and realised how similar our stories were. He had managed to cross the Channel the same night as me on a different lorry', 'He ended up in London, where he still lives. I see him at least once a week and am so happy that he is safe and doing well.', 'There was a local charity called Kent Refugee Action Network and they helped me a lot. They had English classes, but they also set up cooking lessons and all the things I needed to know – like how to get up on time.']"
187,"['Suella Braverman is expected to ask whether refugee rules introduced in the wake of World War Two are still relevant in a speech today.', 'The home secretary is due to speak in front of centre-right US think tank the American Enterprise Institute on a visit to Washington DC.', 'She will argue that certain aspects of the United Nations Refugee Convention 1951 are ‘absurd’, and warn that a system where all gay people or women who are ‘fearful of discrimination’ can ‘qualify for protection’ is unsustainable.', 'Along with a 1967 Protocol, the convention defines what is meant by the term ‘refugee’ and lays out the international standards of treatment to ensure people who fall under the definition are protected.', 'Labour said Ms Braverman was ‘looking for anyone else to blame’ after having ‘given up on fixing’ the British asylum system.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'In the US capital, the home secretary will say the present framework allows for the merging of ‘seeking asylum’ with ‘seeking better economic prospects’.', 'She will say: ‘The convention was created to help resettle people fleeing persecution, following the horrors of World War Two and the Holocaust, and was – initially at least – centred around Europe.', '‘It was an incredible achievement of its age. But more than 70 years on, we now live in a completely different time.', '‘When the Refugee Convention was signed, it conferred protection on some two million people in Europe.', '‘According to analysis by Nick Timothy and Karl Williams for the Centre for Policy Studies, it now confers the notional right to move to another country upon at least 780 million people.’', 'Ms Braverman will add: ‘Let me be clear, there are vast swathes of the world where it is extremely difficult to be gay, or to be a woman. Where individuals are being persecuted, it is right that we offer sanctuary.', '‘But we will not be able to sustain an asylum system if in effect, simply being gay, or a woman, and fearful of discrimination in your country of origin is sufficient to qualify for protection.', '‘The status quo, where people are able to travel through multiple safe countries, and even reside in safe countries for years, while they pick their preferred destination to claim asylum, is absurd and unsustainable.’', 'Several home office plans to tackle small boat migration to the UK remain stalled, with no flights for processing in Rwanda having taken off yet and the Bibby Stockholm accommodation barge still empty.', 'The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has described the Rwanda plans as a ‘clear breach’ of the 1951 convention.', 'Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: ‘Most people in Britain want to see strong border security and a properly managed asylum and resettlement system so that the UK does its bit to help vulnerable refugees who have fled persecution and conflict – like the Afghan interpreters who helped our armed forces. ', '‘Under the Tories we have the worst of all worlds – a broken asylum system that is neither firm nor fair.’']"
188,"['Up Next', 'Suella Braverman is facing stiff criticism from opposition parties and the UN after delivering one of the most ‘grotesque speeches given by a minister’.', 'In a speech today to a centre-right think-tank in Washington DC, the home secretary claimed, among other things, that ‘multi-culturalism has failed’.', 'Immigration, she added, is an ‘existential challenge’ to the West and that who the post-World War Two international asylum system protects should be ‘tightened’.', '‘Let me be clear, there are vast swathes of the world where it is extremely difficult to be gay or to be a woman,’ she told attendees of the American Enterprise Institute keynote.', '‘Where individuals are being persecuted, it is right that we offer sanctuary.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘But we will not be able to sustain an asylum system if in effect, simply being gay, or a woman, and fearful of discrimination in your country of origin, is sufficient to qualify for protection.’', 'As Braverman left the institute and ducked questions from reporters, an American passer-by reportedly shouted at her calling her a ‘disgrace’, PA Media reported.', 'But Braverman had even more critics elsewhere. The UN’s refugee agency (UNHCR)\xa0rejected Braverman’s claims, stressing that the International Refugee Convention must not be torn up anytime soon. ', 'The 1951 convention defines refugees as people ‘unable or unwilling to return to their country of origin owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted’.', 'For the UNCHR, there is no need for the convention to be ‘restricted’ when it comes to supporting the some 35,000,000 refugees in the world. ', 'That makes the agreement ‘as relevant today as when it was adopted’, the agency said in a statement today after Braverman’s speech.', '‘Where individuals are at risk of persecution on the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity, it is crucial that they are able to seek safety and protection,’ the statement said.', '‘The need is not for reform or more restrictive interpretation, but for stronger and more consistent application of the Convention and its underlying principle of responsibility-sharing,’ the UNCHR added.', 'Leanne MacMillan, the director of global for LGBTQ+ charity Stonewall, said Braverman’s speech was ‘incredibly concerning’.', '‘It has been well settled for decades that women and LGBTQ+ people who are persecuted and need to flee their home countries are to be protected by the international community,’ she said.', 'MacMillan pointed to how it is an ‘indisputable fact’ that queer people remain persecuted and discriminated against worldwide.', 'At least a dozen countries have the death penalty for same-sex attraction, according to the Human Dignity Trust. ', 'ActionAid UK said that, for many women and girls, seeking asylum is the final resort. (From rape, forced marriage and so-called ‘honour crimes’ to forced pregnancy and forced sterilisation, as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe said in 2010.)', 'The charity’s chief executive Halima Begum said: ‘Denying this fundamental right is not just a policy choice; it’s a direct affront to gender equality and human rights.', '‘Upholding the humanitarian duty to provide refuge and safety to women in need is not just an option; it’s an imperative.’', 'Maggie Chapman MSP, the Scottish Greens justice and equality spokesperson, had some more choice words for Braverman. ', '‘This was one of the most grotesque and abhorrent speeches that has ever been given by a UK minister,’ she said in a statement. ‘It was reminiscent of Enoch Powell and the politics of hate.', '‘What the home secretary is calling for would punish extremely vulnerable people and undo decades of convention and work and protections that were agreed over 70 years ago.’', 'For Chapman, Braverman’s speech was the latest in the Conservative government’s increasingly hardline immigration policies. ', 'The government has been mostly focused on asylum seekers crossing the English Channel, even as the majority are people fleeing war and persecution. ', 'Among the measures introduced have included plans to off-shore some to Rwanda or house them on barges, such as the Bibby Stockholm. ', 'Controversial legislation to stop small boats from crossing the English Channel was passed in July, allowing for the swift detention and deportation of anyone arriving in Britain by illegal means.', '‘We need to break from an increasingly xenophobic and extreme Tory government that is determined to strip the remaining humanity from the asylum system as part of its disgraceful culture war,’ added Chapman.', '‘We can have a humane and welcoming system that is based on openness and solidarity, but it won’t come from a racist and reactionary Tory government or a Home Office that should have been abolished long ago.’']"
189,"['Up Next', 'The Home Secretary says multiculturalism in Europe has ‘failed’ as she calls for asylum reform to try and preserve national identities.', 'Suella Braverman has hosted a keynote speech in Washington today in order to campaign for changes to global asylum rules.', 'Mr Braverman also said it is ‘dangerous’ to dismiss people who express concerns about immigration numbers as ‘idiots or bigots’.', 'She says the current framework, introduced after World War II, is ‘outdated’ and today deals with many millions more people than it did when it was put in place 70 years ago.', 'She set out four main arguments against illegal migration during her speech, one of which was the civic argument, saying: ‘Uncontrolled immigration, inadequate integration and a misguided dogma of multiculturalism have proven a toxic combination for Europe over the last few decades.’', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'She said multiculturalism ‘has failed because it allowed people to come to our society and live parallel lives in it’, and even ‘pursue lives aimed at undermining the stability and threatening the security of our society’.', 'She referenced a speech by former German chancellor Angela Merkel in 2010 in which she said multiculturalism had failed, saying she is ‘not sure that very much has changed since’.', 'Migration to the UK and Europe in the last 25 years ‘has been too much, too quick, with too little thought given to integration and the impact on social cohesion,’ she said.', 'Ms Braverman added: ‘If cultural change is too rapid and too big, then what was already there is diluted. Eventually it will disappear.', '‘I believe that the nation state is one of humanity’s great civilising forces. It creates a shared identity and a shared purpose, and that does not need to have a racial component.', '‘Typically it binds people of different racial background together. Far from being an ugly emotion, patriotism stirs people to heroism and kindness.', '‘In order for nationality to be sustainable economically, culturally, and in terms of public support, it needs to encompass everyone.', '‘That in turn means the country cannot grow exponentially and still maintain the harmony for everyone to feel that we are all in this together.', '‘If immigration is uncontrolled, it makes it harder for society to adapt and accommodate new cultures and customs.', '‘If people are not able to settle in our countries and start to think of themselves as British, American, French, or German, then something is going badly wrong.’', 'Ms Braverman also hit back at critics during the speech, arguing that concerns over immigration does not make one an ‘idiot’ or a ‘bigot’.', 'In the address, she said the ‘cynical’ reason that countries had together failed to reform the decades-old global asylum system was a ‘fear of being branded a racist or illiberal’.', 'She added: ‘Any attempt to reform the Refugee Convention will see you smeared as anti-refugee.', '‘Similar epithets are hurled at anyone who suggests reform of the ECHR (European Convention on Human Rights) or its court in Strasbourg.', '‘I reject the notion that a country cannot be expected to respect human rights if it is not signed up to an international human rights organisation.', '‘As if the UK doesn’t have a proud history of human rights dating back to Magna Carta, and the ECHR is all that is holding us back from becoming Russia.’']"
191,"['Suella Braverman has drawn criticism after claiming some asylum seekers ‘pretend to be gay’ to get ‘special treatment’.', 'Her controversial comments follow a trip to the US and a speech she made on Tuesday where she called for the UN’s asylum framework to be reformed.', 'During the speech she said while there are many countries where being gay or a woman is ‘incredibly tough’, ‘being a victim of discrimination shouldn’t necessarily qualify you for asylum protection in the UK’.', 'Ms Braverman said there are ‘many instances’ where people pretend to be gay to receive ‘preferential treatment’, saying that is not ‘fair’ or ‘right’.', 'According to Home Office data, sexual orientation formed part of the basis for an asylum claim in 1% of all applications in 2021.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'That was 77% fewer than in 2019, when sexual orientation made up 5% of all applications, and 7% in 2017.', 'In an interview with ITV News due to air in full later this evening, Ms Braverman was asked about Elton John and his foundation’s response to her speech.', 'He warned she risked ‘further legitimising hate and violence’ against LGBTQ people and called for ‘more compassion’.', 'When asked by Robert Peston about Sir Elton’s response to her speech, she replied: ‘Well, I have huge admiration for Elton John, but what I would say is that we need to be, again, honest about what’s actually happening on the ground.', '‘And as I said in my speech, we need to be clear about what constitutes persecution. ', '‘Persecution is where people are being tortured, where they are receiving ill treatment, where they are having their human rights violated in a monstrous and grotesque way.', '‘And of course, we want to welcome people fleeing persecution to the UK. That’s not the same as discrimination, and I fully acknowledge that it is miserable and incredibly tough around parts of the world to be gay or to be a woman.', '‘Being a victim of discrimination shouldn’t necessarily qualify you for asylum protection in the UK.’', 'On whether she has any evidence that people are ‘gaming the system’, she said: ‘Well, what we see operationally is that people do game the system. ', '‘They come to the UK, they purport to be homosexual in the effort to game our system, in the effort to get special treatment. That’s not fair and it’s not right.', '‘I’m afraid we do see many instances where people purport to be gay when they’re not actually gay, but in order to get special treatment. It’s not the way our asylum system should work.’', 'Challenging the Home Secretary’s claims, gay Labour MP and former minster Sir Chris Bryant wrote on Twitter: ‘How many? Where’s your evidence? And how dare you scurry behind the apron strings of prejudice to hide the fact that you’ve manifestly failed to deal with the asylum mess you and your party created.’', 'Journalist and commentator Owen Jones said: ‘Suella Braverman is a monster who becomes more nauseating by the day, and what she says here is the exact opposite of the truth. ', '‘Britain deports LGBTQ refugees to countries which endanger their safety and their lives. That’s a fact.’', 'Actor Ian McKellen told Channel 4 News her comments are ‘laced with a good dollop of prejudice and hoping that she’s going to get a few votes because of it’.', 'LGBT charity Stonewall said: ‘The implication that LGBTQ and women asylum seekers are using their identities to falsely claim asylum en masse is unhelpful and unsound when viewed alongside statistics which clearly show that the majority of claims are valid and made by those who are at serious risk of violence.’', 'Meanwhile, Sonya Sceats, chief executive at Freedom from Torture, said: ‘LGBTQ people are tortured in many countries for who they are and who they love, and their pain is no less than other survivors we treat in our therapy rooms.', '‘They deserve precisely the same protection too.', '‘For a liberal democracy like Britain to try to weaken protection for this community is shameful.’']"
192,"['Sir Elton John has issued a statement in response to Home Secretary Suella Braverman’s suggestion the UK will have to be pickier about which LGBTQ+ people are granted asylum.', 'Sir Elton, 76, accused 43-year-old Braverman of ‘further legitimising hate and violence’ against members of the LGBTQ+ community and called on leaders to ‘provide more compassion, support and acceptance’.', 'Delivering a speech to centre-right think-tank American Enterprise Institute in Washington DC on Tuesday, Braverman argued that a system where all gay people or women who are ‘fearful of discrimination’ can ‘qualify for protection’ is unsustainable.', '‘Let me be clear, there are vast swathes of the world where it is extremely difficult to be\xa0gay\xa0or to be a woman,’ the home secretary\xa0told attendees of the American Enterprise Institute keynote.', '‘Where individuals are being persecuted, it is right that we offer sanctuary.', '‘But we will not be able to sustain an asylum system if in effect, simply being gay, or a woman, and fearful of discrimination in your country of origin, is sufficient to qualify for protection,’ she added, arguing the threshold for asylum has been lowered since the United Nations’ Refugee Convention was signed over 70 years ago.', 'The 1951 convention defines refugees as people ‘unable or unwilling to return to their country of origin owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted’.', 'At least a dozen countries have the death penalty for same-sex attraction, according to the\xa0Human Dignity Trust.', 'In response, Sir Elton and his husband David Furnish published an Instagram statement on behalf of the Elton John Aids Foundation.', 'The statement read in full: ‘We are very concerned about the UK Home Secretary’s comments stating how discrimination for being gay or a woman should not be reason enough to qualify for protection under international refugee laws.', '‘Nearly a third of all nations class LGBTQ+ people as criminals and homosexuality is still punishable by death in 11 countries.’', 'It continued: ‘Dismissing the very real danger LGBTQ+ communities face risks further legitimising hate and violence against them.', '‘Leaders need to provide more compassion, support and acceptance for those seeking a safer future.’', 'In the wake of Braverman’s comments, LGBTQ+ charity Stonewall also swiftly condemned her sentiment.', 'Leanne MacMillan, Stonewall’s director, said Braverman’s speech was ‘incredibly concerning’.', '‘It has been well settled for decades that women and LGBTQ+ people who are persecuted and need to flee their home countries are to be protected by the international community,’ she said.']"
194,"['A refugee from Ukraine died of horrific burns after she was doused with petrol and set alight in Russia.', 'Shakhnoza Dadadzhanova, 36, was killed after she was set ablaze ‘by her ex-husband Ayat Aliyev, 49’, according to reports.', 'NTV released a distressing video showing how the mum-of-two was covered in fuel then set alight.', 'She had arrived home in the Moscow region with a bunch of flowers and coffee.', 'Her ex-husband, who she had dumped because of he used to ‘beat her everyday’, allegedly waited at her front door.', 'The man asked her: ‘Where have you been?’', 'Shakhnoza replied: ‘At a birthday party.’', 'When asked whose birthday party it was, she responded: ‘My female friend’s.’', 'Security camera footage shows a man douse her with petrol which is then ignited as she sought to fight him off.', 'She flees and tries to remove her clothing and roll on the ground to put out the flames.', 'Witnesses used water to help extinguish the flames and said Shakhnoza was screaming in pain.', 'Shakhnoza was hospitalised with third degree burns, and died three days after the attack.', 'The suspect has been detained and an investigation launched into attempted murder, and could be jailed for 20 years, according to the Russian Investigative Committee.', 'The victim’s sister Aziza Dadabaeva said: ‘He beat her constantly, so she left him.', '‘But he stalked her.’', 'NTV reported that he was ‘extremely jealous’.', 'She had moved to Russia from Kherson in Ukraine when unrest first flared in the ex-Soviet republic in 2014, according to reports.', 'She had been married to the alleged attacker but then threw him out.']"
195,"['Dozens of Palestinians have been killed and injured after the Israeli military bombed refugee camps in Al-Shati and Jabalia.', 'The camps have been the latest Palestinian settlements to be targeted by Israeli forces as they continue to escalate their war on Gaza after an attack by Hamas over the weekend killed 1,300 Israelis and injured thousands more.', 'Follow the latest updates from Israel-Palestine on our live blog', 'Palestinian news agency WAFA confirmed an attack hit a market area in Jabalia, ‘killing and wounding dozens and causing heavy destruction’.\xa0', 'The Reuters news agency also quoted the Gaza-based Ministry of Health as saying the attack has killed and wounded dozens of people.', 'Numerous children were reported to have been killed in the attack, Al Jazeera reports. Following the strikes, men were seen clawing through the rubble to recover an infant’s tiny body from the rubble and another small boy was laid to rest at the local cemetery, his body shrouded in a white cloth.', 'Local man Nasser Abu Quta told reporters 19 members of his family, including his wife, had been killed when an air strike hit their home.', 'There were no fighters in his building, he said. ‘This is a safe house, with children and women,’ he told the AP press agency via telephone.', 'Another strike in the same city early Monday killed 11 people, including women and children.', 'Similar scenes of devastation were reported at the Shati refugee camp, also known as Beach Camp, where ‘dozens’ of casualties were rushed to Al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City after suffered severe injuries at the hands of Israeli bombers.', 'At least 1,417 Palestinians are now confirmed to have died since Saturday, according to the Gaza health ministry.', 'More than a third of the civilians killed in the barrages of airstrikes on Gaza since Saturday are children.', 'At least 447 children have died, Gaza’s health ministry has confirmed.', 'The Israeli army has called up about 300,000 reservists following the weekend’s attacks, and said in a statement it would aim to end Hamas’s rule of Gaza.', '‘We have never drafted so many reservists on such a scale,” Israel’s chief military spokesperson, Daniel Hagari, told reporters. “We are going on the offensive.’', 'Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has warned civilians to get away from all Hamas sites, which he has promised to turn ‘to rubble’.', 'During a televised address, he vowed to crush Hamas and said Israel’s response would ‘reverberate with their enemies for generations’.']"
196,"['When Steve McCurry paused to snap a photo of a young girl in Pakistan, he never realised the legacy it would leave.\xa0', 'The Magnum Photos and National Geographic photographer became internationally renowned after releasing his powerful 1984 portrait of Sharbat Gula, an Afghan refugee he’d met in Pakistan during the Soviet–Afghan War.', 'The now world famous image showed oprhan Sharbat, then 12, staring determinedly down the camera lens. The picture became known as the ‘Afghan Girl’.', 'Steve tracked down Sharbat in 2002 where he took another portrait, seen above on the right.', 'Since the initial photo, the single mother – who has four children – had spent three decades as a refugee in Pakistan and was arrested in 2016 for using a forged identity card. Doing so was a common practice at the time among refugees forced to live in Pakistan without legal status. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Sharbat was released two weeks after her arrest and finally given a home in Afghanistan in 2017. ', 'Despite it being shot almost four decades ago, the portrait of her 12-year-old self is still widely known – and branded ‘the most recognized photograph’ in the history of the National Geographic magazine.']"
197,"['Ross Duke was teaching history at a comprehensive school when he was told a young refugee boy who had left his parents behind to walk the majority of the way from Afghanistan would be joining his GCSE class.\xa0', '‘We had a briefing before the student came into the class,’ the 41-year-old teacher remembers. ‘We were told possible things we could try with him and to be sensitive to issues [like talking about war].’', 'However, when the young boy turned up on his first day at a new school, in a country that was nothing like home, the reality of teaching a refugee child hit home for Ross.', '‘Thrust’ into the classroom to study GCSE history without any grasp of the English language, it was clear that neither child nor school were prepared for this.\xa0']"
200,"['I’m writing this from a hospital bed in Gaza.', 'It’s been almost two months since my husband and son were killed during an Israeli airstrike – and I almost died myself.', 'I met my husband Mohammed while at university in 2018 and was immediately attracted to his self-confidence. On top of that, he was kind, loving, and supportive – and always joking around.', 'We got married on 30 September 2019 and I couldn’t have been happier, but what followed was our long struggle to start a family.', 'This culminated in Mohammed and I travelling to Egypt in May last year – originally for a summer holiday, but then we found that the cost of fertility treatment in Cairo was much lower.', 'We spent four months in total there, with the last month undergoing the embryo transfer. I was very excited because our goal of having a family felt very real – especially when we learned that the procedure was successful.', 'Two weeks after the embryo transfer, we had to make the risky journey back across the border to Gaza, which took two full days due to a difficult land journey across often dangerous checkpoints. I was exhausted and feared for my unborn child.', 'Then I started to bleed. Once back home, I went to the doctor, who advised me to stay on my back for at least two weeks to stop the bleeding and ensure the continuation of the pregnancy.', 'Thankfully, everything was back on track but in the final months of pregnancy, I faced placenta previa (a condition in which the placenta partially or wholly blocks the uterus), which forced me again into bed rest until I gave birth. ', 'It was a tough period where I couldn’t take care of myself, relying on my mom and my husband.', 'Thank God, all went well, and Ahmed came into the world via a caesarean section and after four years of longing.', 'Despite the troubles and challenges I faced after the C-section – which lasted for three months – the arrival of my beloved son, the joy of my heart, and the support of my dear husband made me stronger.', 'A month after giving birth, I returned to my job as a physiotherapist at Al-Rantisi Hospital. Mohammed took care of Ahmed during my seven-hour work shifts. He also stayed up with our son to let me sleep until I woke up the next day for work.\xa0', 'I took pictures of Ahmed every day and watched him grow up. I imagined him starting his first day of school, then envisioned him as a college student. I pictured him becoming a doctor or an engineer, a husband, and a father. I painted a beautiful future for my child in my imagination.', 'Up Next', 'He was still less than six months old, but I had already bought him clothes that would last until he turned two or even more. I was very excited to see him wear them. I wanted him to grow up quickly and become my companion and friend.', 'Then the war broke out on 7 October and our lives were turned upside down. I was immediately engulfed in fear for the safety of my family, my siblings, and their own families.', 'This was compounded by the stress of being a new mother trying desperately to shield my son from the impact of the bombings and the upheaval in our once tranquil home now filled with noise and anxiety.', 'Within four days of the war starting, our home had become a refuge for over 60 people – including relatives of my husband. They sought safety with us because we all thought the Israeli army wouldn’t bomb our house in the Jabalia Refugee Camp.', 'This drastic change disrupted the normality of life, especially for my son. He had trouble sleeping through intense crying and constant anxiety. Calming and reassuring him was a challenge, made more difficult by the scarcity of proper nutrition needed for breastfeeding.', 'My personal ordeal escalated on the 12th\xa0day of the conflict, 19 October 2023. By that point, there were now 31 people sheltering in our house, as the rest decided to move south.', 'Some of us were in a room together, after I had fed Ahmed, kissed him and put him to bed in another room. I don’t know why, but my husband left the room we were in to do something.', 'Seconds later, the house was bombed and I immediately saw total darkness.']"
201,"['An Israeli air strike has killed at least 68 Palestinians in a refugee camp in Gaza, the Palestinian health ministry said.', 'At least 12 women and seven children are included in the death toll from the strike on Maghazi refugee camp on Christmas Eve – just 83km from Bethlehem.', 'The horrific strike happened very close to the believed birthplace of Jesus.', 'The IDF said it is ‘reviewing’ the airstrike in Maghazi and aims to ‘minimise harm to civilians’.', 'It comes only days after an Israeli airstrike on Gaza ‘killed 76 members of the same family’.', 'Hamas said in a press statement that nearly a hundred people, mainly ‘women and children’ were killed.', 'Mahmoud Bassal, a spokesman for the besieged enclave’s Civil Defense department, shared the names of some of those killed.', '16 heads of households from the al-Mughrabi family and said several victims were women and children.', 'Israel declared war after Hamas militants went across the border on October 7, killing around 1,200 people and taking some 240 hostages.', 'More than 20,000 Palestinians have since died in reprisal aerial and ground assaults, with more than 53,000 wounded, health officials in Gaza say.', 'Earlier in the conflict, Israel bombed refugee camps in Al-Shati and Jabalia, killing dozens and injuring more.', 'Local man Nasser Abu Quta told reporters 19 members of his family, including his wife, had been killed when an air strike hit their home.', 'There were no fighters in his building, he said. ‘This is a safe house, with children and women.’']"
202,"['Children in the UK have contracted scabies after being forced to live in slug and rat infested emergency housing.', 'Katie*, her children and her grandchildren were forced to move out of their home in Rusholme, Manchester, after the landlord decided to sell up.', 'With nowhere large enough on the market, the family ended up presenting as homeless and were moved into a ‘hellhole’ with ‘faeces in the cupboards’.', '‘Then there was poo in the cupboards, leaks coming through the ceiling in\xa0my grandson’s room.', '‘There was the bath coming through the kitchen ceiling\xa0on a regular basis through the wiring, dead rats in the kitchen.’', 'She also described clouds of black flies and a strange rash that the family all came down with. It was later revealed to be scabies at a walk-in clinic.', 'The household were told to keep the door shut to stop the rats getting in, despite the rodents living within the structure of the whole terrace.', '‘It’s disgusting. The whole homelessness section of the council\xa0needs looking at,’ Katie said.', 'MEN have revealed the squalor that families all over Manchester are being forced to live in as a result of rising rents in the area.', 'The publication states that\xa0Manchester City Council’s expenditure on emergency accommodation has risen by six-fold over the last five years,\xa0from £1.6million to just under £10million.', 'But at a council meeting last week, the town hall allegedly admitted it only has two officers checking the quality of the 1,400 houses it uses, at a pace of around 50 a month.', 'In Longsight, Manchester, one family’s plight only came to light when Tenants Union UK went to check on their housing arrangement.', 'The residents, including a ten-month-old baby, had been living with cockroaches, mice and bedbugs in the furniture.', 'When the union raised the matter with the council, it was told the house\xa0‘would have been’ inspected before the family moved in but they could not locate the inspection report to prove it.', 'Another mum, pregnant and with a three-year-old in tow, was checked into a bed and breakfast by the council’s homeless service three weeks ago.', 'Since moving in, Steph* has suffered flea bites, found weed stashed in her pram that she is not allowed to keep in her room and been forced to wash her clothes by hand in a ‘six-inch sink’ due to broken facilities.', 'Single mum Chloe* was placed in the same hotel for three months last year after her landlord in Gorton, east Manchester, put their rent up £70 a week.', 'Calling the conditions ‘horrible’, Chloe said that she ‘cried every night’ and was unable to use the ‘disgusting’ shared kitchen.', 'Families staying at the hotel are not allowed visitors, food in their room or even to be at home from 1.30pm to 4pm each day.', 'A poorly-written ‘license agreement’ states they are also not allowed a kettle, a TV, a radio or electrical appliances of any other kind – and one suitcase only.', 'The hotel received around £400,000 from the council\xa0in 2016.', 'Chloe has now moved into temporary housing in east Manchester, where she has lived for two years.', 'But the single mum still struggles to get the mice at bay and says the property is ‘freezing’ and has ‘damp ceilings’ in the bedrooms, repeatedly causing her daughter to have a bad chest.', 'It is believed around 2,000 children in Manchester will spend this Christmas in emergency accommodation.', 'Deputy leader and the lead for homelessness at Manchester City Council\xa0Sue Murphy said that placing families is an ‘ongoing challenge’ because of the ‘sheer scale’ of people needing homes.', 'The council has plans to spend an extra £2million on homelessness services next year.', '‘Homeless families in temporary accommodation have an absolute right to decent living conditions, something we endeavour to ensure,’ she said.', '‘The sheer scale of this national issue, as increasing numbers of families become homeless because of the impact of welfare changes and rising private rents, makes it a ongoing challenge to source suitable temporary accommodation for families.', '‘We are reviewing our inspection process, drawing on the expertise of partner agencies, to further ensure its rigour.’']"
204,"['The suspect in the horrific chemical attack on a mum and her two young children in south London was in a relationship with the woman, one of his relatives has claimed.', 'Abdul Ezezi, 35, from Newcastle, has been on the run since Wednesday’s attack in Clapham which left a 31-year-old woman with what are thought to be life-changing injuries.', 'He was last seen at London’s King’s Cross Tube station before boarding a southbound Victoria line train and is described as having very ‘significant injuries to the right side of his face’.\xa0', 'They said they are worried about him and want to ‘find out if he is alive or dead’, adding: ‘His injury is very bad and he needs medical attention.’', 'The relative told the broadcaster they are planning to travel to Newcastle to try and find him and pledged to ‘bring him in by myself if I have to’.', 'Police have also today released footage of a raid at a property in Newcastle where officers recovered two empty containers with corrosive warnings on the labels.', 'Up Next', 'The Met says forensic tests are currently ongoing to see if the containers held the substance used in the attack.', 'Questions remain over how the suspect, who was granted asylum in the UK after two failed attempts, was able to stay in the country despite being convicted of a sex offence.', 'Ezedi, who is thought to have arrived in the UK from Afghanistan on the back of a lorry in 2016, claimed to have converted to Christianity, which would have put him at risk following the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan.', 'The Crown Prosecution Service confirmed he was handed a suspended sentence at Newcastle Crown Court on January 9, 2018 after pleading guilty to one charge of sexual assault and one of exposure.', 'He was put on the Sex Offenders Register for 10 years.', 'Prime Minster Rishi Sunak’s spokesman said on Friday that the PM does not think ‘foreign criminals should be able to stay’ in the UK.', 'A priest confirmed Ezedi had converted to Christianity and was ‘wholly committed’ to his new religion, The Daily Telegraph reported.', 'The Diocese of Hexham and Newcastle said in a statement it had ‘found nothing’ to suggest he had become a Catholic but checks were continuing.', 'It said: ‘Our thoughts and prayers are first and foremost with the victims of this appalling attack in south London.', '‘We can confirm that Abdul Shakoor Ezedi visited our diocesan Justice and Peace Refugee Project, a charitable venture which assists a wide range of people who come to us in need.', '‘We are in the process of checking if this individual was received into the Catholic faith in any of our parishes, and have so far found nothing to support that. We are also investigating whether he was helped in other ways.', '‘The diocese will assist the police investigations in any way we can.’', 'The Church of England said it is currently not aware of any links to its churches, with a spokesperson adding that it is ‘the role of the Home Office, and not the church, to vet asylum seekers and judge the merits of their individual cases’.', 'The case has echoes of that of Iraqi-born Emad Al Swealmeen, 32, who died from a blast and subsequent fire after his homemade bomb detonated in a taxi outside Liverpool Women’s Hospital.', 'He also claimed to be a Christian convert to support his asylum claim.', 'Metropolitan Police Commander Jon Savell told reporters outside Scotland Yard on Friday: ‘In terms of our manhunt for Ezedi, we’ve got a large team of very experienced detectives leading the manhunt, using all the tactics that you would expect us to use, lots of officers out on the ground.', '‘We’re working very closely with colleagues from Transport for London, British Transport Police and our colleagues in Northumbria Police as well.', '‘Last night (Thursday), five search warrants were executed – two in east London and three up in Newcastle. We’ve recovered some significant and important pieces of evidence which will help with our investigation.’', 'Up Next', 'Making a direct appeal to Ezedi, Mr Savell said: ‘Abdul, you clearly have got some very significant injuries.', '‘We’ve seen the images. You need some medical help, so do the right thing and hand yourself in.’', 'His brother Hassan Ezedi told The Sun newspaper he would hand the suspect in if he knew where he was.', 'The wanted man left Newcastle in the ‘very, very early hours’ of Wednesday and travelled south to the capital and was in the Tooting area by around 6.30am, police say.', 'His vehicle was seen again in Croydon, south London, at around 4.30pm and by around 7pm he was in Streatham.', 'Ezedi allegedly threw the younger child to the ground during the attack at 7.25pm, before attempting to drive away from the scene, crashing into a stationary vehicle and fleeing on foot.', 'Minutes later he boarded a tube at Clapham South Underground station, and by 8pm he was at King’s Cross tube station.', 'At 8.42pm, Ezedi was captured on CCTV in Tesco on the Caledonian Road, pictured with a ‘fairly significant facial injury’ buying a bottle of water, before leaving and heading right.', 'He got on a Victoria line Tube at 9pm heading south, the last confirmed sighting.', 'Police say three members of the public who came to the aid of the family during Wednesday’s attack, two in their 30s and one in her 50s, have all been discharged from hospital with minor burns.', 'Five officers who responded to the incident were also treated and have now left hospital.', 'One witness to the attack, bus driver Shannon Christi said she was affected by the substance while trying to help the woman and two children outside her home.', 'She told of seeing a man throwing a child on the floor, before hearing the mother saying: ‘I can’t see, I can’t see.’', 'As well as the 11 people taken to hospital, a man in his 50s, who also helped, declined hospital treatment for minor injuries, police said.']"
205,"['A week after my mother first beat me, my parents came home with two men.', 'They took me to a room in the house and asked me to take my clothes off. They grabbed me, held down my hands and spread my legs.\xa0', 'Kneeling down between my legs, the two men tried to circumcise me. I was screaming as he cut. Blood was everywhere. I wasn’t given any pain medication. They almost killed me.\xa0', 'It was the start of a lifetime of pain, physical abuse and trauma, all inflicted on me because of the simple fact I’m a lesbian.', 'I was born and raised in Nigeria – but I’m now in my 40s and live in the UK. I was granted asylum, but only after a five-year process during which I was detained, given notice for deportation, and left suicidal as I was left to languish in prison-like conditions.\xa0', 'In my experience, the British Home Office treats people in my situation like animals. That has to change.\xa0', 'My mum found out about my sexuality when I was 13. I was at home with a girl I was in a relationship with when she came home early from work. She started shouting at me, calling me an abomination.\xa0', 'I’d always had a good relationship with my mum. That changed in an instant. She started beating me from that day, and it didn’t stop. She’d use a cane, bat – anything she could get a hold of.', 'My parents wanted to take the devil out of me, and they thought it had worked because I wasn’t myself after I was attacked by those two men.\xa0', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'But I was just traumatised and sinking deep into depression. My sexuality stayed the same. It’s who I am.\xa0', 'In 2012, when I was 30, my parents sponsored me to come to the UK to study business management at university. During my first year, they pressured me into getting into a relationship with a man, telling me that they wouldn’t support me financially otherwise.', 'I married one in 2013 to appease them. But it was never going to last, and when we split after five months, my parents stopped paying my tuition fees.\xa0', 'My student visa ran out in 2014, but I couldn’t go back to Nigeria. I was too scared of what I’d face because of my sexuality.', 'But I also didn’t have any money. I sofa-surfed with friends for three years, then the Home Office found me in 2017. They immediately took me to Yarl’s Wood, the notorious immigration detention centre that’s now been deemed ‘unsafe’ by HM Inspectorate of Prisons.', 'For six months, I was locked in what felt like a prison. I had to share a bedroom and a bathroom. My freedom felt like it had been taken away.\xa0\xa0', 'No one knew I was a lesbian, I didn’t dare tell anyone. I had heard about the violence gay people faced in detention and was terrified about being attacked.\xa0', 'I asked the Home Office to release me because of the risks but they refused. At the time, I didn’t know I could claim asylum in this country based on the persecution I faced at home.', 'People fleeing violence and persecution on the basis of their sexuality qualify as refugees under the 1951 Refugee Convention.', 'But the British Home Office has long been accused of not believing that LGBT+ asylum seekers are who they say they are. And in September 2023, Home Secretary, Suella Braverman, claimed that asylum seekers pretend to be gay to get ‘special treatment’.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'My first solicitor, who helped me make my asylum application, and my Home Office interviewer were both men. I was afraid to tell either of them about my sexuality. As a result, my application was refused and I was given notice for my deportation.', 'As the weeks went by, my mental health drastically declined. No one could help me because I was afraid to tell them I was a lesbian.', 'This, combined with the fears of being deported and the trauma of what had been done to me in Nigeria, led me to suffer with post traumatic stress. I was suicidal at several points.\xa0', 'I wasn’t the only one. I saw several women attempt to take their own lives at Yarl’s Wood.', 'My physical body was suffering too. My haemoglobin levels were so low that I had to have continuous transfusions to the point that I became bed-bound. I suspect it may have been to do with the quality of food we received, but I can’t say for certain.', 'Even then, the Home Office was still trying to deport me.', 'I contacted the immigration charity Medical Justice. They helped me prove why I couldn’t be deported – my blood level was too low for me to fly – and to be released from Yarl’s Wood on health grounds.', 'They also connected me with another solicitor, this time a woman, who I felt able to open up to. She challenged the Home Office’s decision in court, arguing that my case should be reviewed again, this time taking into account my sexuality.', 'Once I got out of Yarl’s Wood, I joined Women for Refugee’s Rainbow Sisters solidarity group for LGBTQ+ refugee and asylum-seeking women. Here, I found a community of people like me, friends who I talk to every day.\xa0', 'I didn’t have to hide anything from them. So many of them have gone through the same issues as me.\xa0', 'Just as I was feeling more positive, the Home Office refused my claim in 2020, saying they didn’t believe I was a lesbian.\xa0', 'Their disbelief stunned me. Why would I suffer all these years if I wasn’t?\xa0', 'For the next two years, as I appealed, just existing was excruciating. I was living between temporary accommodation and with friends. Even with my new support system at Rainbow Sisters, life felt hard.', 'Finally, in September 2022, I received the news I’d been waiting so long for: my claim had been granted.', 'Since then, I’ve tried to rebuild my life, but it hasn’t been easy. It’s been hard to find a job because of my mental health, which I still struggle with. I’d like to pursue a career in science as a researcher, but have been told I need documents from my country, and I don’t know how to get them.', 'After being so suppressed and living in fear for so long, community and my new-found independence are building me back up. I don’t have the headspace for a relationship, so I’m currently single.', 'I wish the Home Office would treat us like human beings, not animals. That they would try to understand our trauma and why we fled our home countries.\xa0', '*Name changed to protect identity', 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', 'Think you know your bra size? This lingerie pro says you’re probably wrong', ""From embroidered napkins to makeup brushes – here's everything a shopping expert is buying"", 'Calling all brides as Lily & Roo have just launched the most gorgeous wedding jewellery', 'Rest your head after the marathon with Simba’s best-selling mattress', 'As told to Lauren Crosby Medlicott']"
206,[]
207,"[""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'A homeless man was filmed being dragged on the ground and trodden on by a police officer in Manchester. ', 'The refugee, from Sudan, said he had been\xa0‘telling her I need to sleep’ and said he had to go to hospital after the incident with blood in his urine and a fever.', 'Video footage obtained by the BBC shows how the female officer pulled his green sleeping bag towards her, dragging the man across concrete paving.', 'Now homeless charity Crisis has called the incident ‘awful’, saying: ‘It’s appalling to see such dehumanising treatment of people rough sleeping.’', 'Greater Manchester Police said the incident ‘fell below the standard we expect’ and added it should not be repeated.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The homeless man, 31, told the BBC that at the time of the incident last September he had regularly been moved on by council workers.', 'Of the day in question, he said: ‘We told them we had nowhere to go and that it was very cold.’', 'The man, who has been in the UK around three and a half years and has right to remain, said the officer ‘stamped on my stomach with her foot’. ', 'He said the force had apologised to him and since the incident he has found accommodation. ', 'Responding to the news, Matt Downie, chief executive of Crisis, said: ‘If the police behave in this way, how do we expect the public to improve the way they treat rough sleepers?’', 'Greater Manchester Police said: ‘The officer’s behaviour fell below the standards we expect, especially concerning respect for all members of the community, and the officer’s actions were dealt with.', '‘The superintendent responsible for the city centre personally discussed the incident with the officer and made it clear that her actions were unacceptable and must not be repeated.', '‘She, along with other employees, received refresher training on how to deal with similar situations in the future.’']"
208,"['The moment I received a positive decision on my asylum claim, I nearly collapsed\xa0with\xa0joy.', 'It was 2018 and\xa0I’d\xa0already spent 13 years in the UK. Finally, I felt safe after years\xa0of danger and uncertainty.', 'Since I was a teenager, I knew I was attracted to women but I suppressedmy\xa0feelings.\xa0In\xa0my\xa0home\xa0country in Africa, people believe being LGBTQ+ is unacceptable. We face widespread discrimination and abuse – in public and within our own families.', 'But living with this secret felt claustrophobic. I was hiding who I really was.\xa0', 'I eventually married a man because it was expected of me. But it never felt right.', 'When I was in my 40s, I met a woman at work.\xa0We started\xa0an affair,\xa0meeting\xa0up whenever we could.\xa0I’d never felt\xa0so happy.\xa0', 'Unfortunately,\xa0after\xa0a few months\xa0we were caught by my husband who came home early\xa0when I wasn’t expecting him. He was so angry. Both our careers were at risk. Our lives were at risk.', 'Desperate for her own name to be expunged, the woman I loved told\xa0her employers I’d forced her into the relationship. She threatened to report me to the police.', 'If this were to happen, I’d lose my job, and could potentially be killed – by being stoned to death.\xa0', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'I had to flee.', 'I had a cousin in the UK\xa0who’d\xa0visited me several times. I didn’t\xa0dare\xa0tell her anything,\xa0just that\xa0I wanted to\xa0come and\xa0see her for a little while.', 'She helped me to get a visitor visa and I flew into Heathrow in September 2005.', 'At first, things were OK.', 'She told\xa0her employers I’d forced her into the relationship. She threatened to report me to the police', 'But it wasn’t long before my cousin became authoritative. She made me work for her at her cleaning job, for no payment. She\xa0forced\xa0me sleep on the\xa0kitchen\xa0floor, kicking me in the morning to wake me. If I questioned her, she slapped me across the face.', 'In\xa0December 2005, she kicked me out after I had missed work. She opened the front door, threw my bags at me and demanded that I go. I felt hopeless.\xa0\xa0', 'I wandered the streets, cold and alone.\xa0', 'I only knew one other person in the area, a woman who lived on the same street. She’d smile or stop and chat to me when we passed each other.\xa0', 'So, plucking up my courage,\xa0I knocked on\xa0her\xa0door. I told her my story and she said I could stay with her for a couple of days until her family arrived for Christmas.\xa0', 'But once those days were up,\xa0I had\xa0to leave,\xa0although she did give\xa0me £20 and some clothing to take with me.\xa0', 'I\xa0had no idea where\xa0I’d stay.\xa0Thankfully,\xa0through visiting African shops and my church, I managed to find other people who’d\xa0let me sleep on a couch or spare bed in exchange for cleaning and childcare. Occasionally, the kind pastor from my church would let me stay with him.\xa0', 'I wandered for years around London, just trying to find places to stay.\xa0Sometimes I’d have to sleep on the bus or outside in the park.\xa0Although it was\xa0an awful existence, it was paradise compared to what\xa0I’d be facing\xa0in my own country.', 'They provide vital support and solidarity for LGBT+ women and individuals through the tedious and draining asylum process, providing hope, love and family.', 'Everyone deserves to live in safety as their true self.', 'Donate here.', 'I bumped into my cousin\xa0five years after\xa0she’d thrown me out. I heard her before I saw her. ‘You can run, but you can’t hide,’ she said in my language. She accused me of stealing from her because I’d lived with her for free.\xa0\xa0', 'She then forced me onto a bus\xa0and took\xa0me to the police station,\xa0where she told officers\xa0I’d\xa0overstayed my visa.\xa0', 'They put me in custody, took\xa0my DNA,\xa0then handed me over to an immigration officer.\xa0', 'From that moment, I had to ‘sign on’ and report to the Home Office every two weeks from 2010 until 2015, while continuing to work with my lawyer to avoid deportation. I continued to\xa0move\xa0from place to place with nowhere to call home.\xa0', 'In November 2015, I went to sign on and was told I would be sent to Yarl’s Wood\xa0Immigration Removal Centre\xa0to await deportation. I was\xa0terrified.\xa0', 'I was put in a white van and driven for hours until we arrived in the middle of the night. All I remember was gate after gate after gate.\xa0', 'For five weeks, I mainly sat in my room,\xa0which I shared with\xa0another\xa0woman. Every 30 minutes, guards would check on us. They knocked on the door,\xa0then\xa0walked in. Often we were undressed when they entered.\xa0', 'The food was terrible. I remember having either chicken thighs and sweetcorn with no sauce, or chicken drumsticks and mashed potato. The portion sizes were tiny, and my stomach\xa0constantly\xa0rumbled\xa0with hunger. But we were never allowed seconds.\xa0They’d\xa0throw the rest of the food out instead.\xa0', 'We were allowed to work, so I\xa0helped\xa0in the kitchen. I was paid £1\xa0an\xa0hour.\xa0', 'And still, no one knew about my sexuality. I hid it in Africa, and felt I had to hide it in the UK as well.\xa0I felt like I’d never be able to be myself.\xa0', 'I was given a\xa0female\xa0lawyer while in detention and for the first time, I told someone about my sexuality as a reason for fleeing my country. I was told I could claim asylum, something I’d never\xa0known was\xa0a possibility.\xa0', 'I was put in a white van and driven for hours until we arrived in the middle of the night. All I remember was gate after gate after gate', 'Released from detention while my asylum claim was being processed, I slept in Heathrow airport and sofa-surfed for\xa0a further\xa0three years.\xa0', 'I had migraines, depression, and was having flashbacks to all the trauma\xa0I’d\xa0been through. It was a terrible time. But I was like a dead goat. No amount of kicking could hurt me more\xa0anymore.\xa0', 'Several times, my claim was refused, so I appealed. Then, three years after my initial application, in 2018, I received a positive decision. I could finally breathe.\xa0\xa0', 'Five years later, I’m still recovering. I’m\xa0on\xa0antidepressants and am frequently triggered.\xa0', 'I work two hours a day cleaning and involve myself in lots of charity work. I still rely on charities to support me, so I like to give back where I can.\xa0\xa0\xa0', 'Unfortunately, I still keep my sexuality quiet\xa0for the most part but\xa0I have come out to women who are part of Women for Refugee Women’s Rainbow Sisters.\xa0', 'Rainbow Sisters is a safe and welcoming space for women like me.\xa0We’re\xa0all members of the LGBTQ+ community and we have\xa0all\xa0had to seek safety.\xa0They’re my\xa0family.\xa0', 'To finally feel safe, when for so long\xa0all\xa0you have felt\xa0is\xa0danger, is like paradise.\xa0', 'I can only hope one day I’ll be able to live freely as myself, and that I’ll find love.\xa0', 'As told to Lauren Crosby Medlicott. The name of the author has been changed to protect their identity.']"
210,"['My heart was pumping from familiar anxiety, as I stood outside the Lesbian Asylum Support Sheffield (LASS) – a refugee charity hub in the city centre.', 'At first, I didn’t dare to go in. It was the summer of 2021, and I was going to join a meeting for the first time since lockdown.', 'The support group unites women from all around the globe – people that come to the area as asylum seekers, mostly after facing discrimination in their home countries.', 'But I am not a ‘lass’. Or even a lad. I’ve never fitted into those labels.', 'In fact, only a couple of months earlier, I’d finally come out as a non-binary transgender person in the LASS’s WhatsApp group. I was scared I wouldn’t be accepted.', 'But my worries were unfounded. As soon as I opened the door, one of the coordinators came to me and smiled, saying how glad she was to see me.', 'Then I was asked to write my pronouns (they/them) on a special badge. I let out a sigh of relief. Everything was fine. I was welcomed by the group and it was the first UK community where I managed to fit in.', 'I don’t have good experience with acceptance.', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'I was raised in Donetsk, Ukraine, in a highly conservative Christian family. While some people of my parents’ generation have never read a bible because of Soviet discrimination against religion, my father was the one who spent his free time studying scripture.\xa0', 'Of course, as a child, I never heard about trans people.', 'But even as young as three, I preferred male pronouns and chose the name Mowgli from my favourite story The Jungle Book. I was instantly bullied by peers for this.', 'I tried to accept the name my parents gave me just to survive. I also learned not to pay much attention to my body to stop dysphoria (which is unease about the gender assigned to me at birth).\xa0', 'I started to realise that there was something unusual about me.', 'I didn’t understand why I couldn’t wear a dress and have a beard at the same time. Gender norms were beyond my understanding.', 'I left Donetsk at the age of 19 after it was occupied in 2014, together with my family. I lived in Russia for several years, where I had problems with the authorities for my LGBTQ+ activism and political statements.', 'By this point, I had come out as a lesbian and self-diagnosed as autistic (later receiving a formal diagnosis in the UK). I was vocal about the discrimination LGBTQ+ people experienced in Russia, including the country’s ‘gay propaganda’ law.\xa0', 'I met my partner, Lina – who is a Russian citizen – via social media. We instantly clicked because she’s autistic as well and we both love science fiction.', 'We were messaging each other for nearly a year before I moved in with her. At first, we were just friends, but our relationship soon became more serious.', 'We eventually married in Denmark in April 2018, which was an important step for me as an activist who believes in equal marriage rights for queer people.\xa0', 'But in the summer of 2018, Lina and I had to leave Russia due to our political activism. It wasn’t safe for us anymore so – after trying to claim asylum in Israel, but being unsuccessful – we decided to come to the UK to do the same in November 2018.', 'At Heathrow Airport, that’s where we asked for political asylum, before the Home Office moved us to Wakefield, then onto Sheffield.', 'The only thing we knew about Sheffield at the time was from Doctor Who! We instantly fell in love with its parks, clean air and welcoming locals.', 'This is where I started to explore my gender identity more broadly and work to overcome childhood traumas.', 'At the age of 26, I finally accepted myself as a non-binary person, so I started to wear a chest binder and badges with my pronouns. I also started writing fictional stories about autistic transgender teens for Transmuted, which is a magazine.', 'I found out about LASS almost by accident – at a refugee hub – a special place in Sheffield’s Cathedral Victoria Hall once a week, where refugee people could find legal support from a drop-in solicitor.', 'Lina and I joined LASS during our first year in the UK, and I was excited that they easily accepted us. It really felt like they truly supported me – so I kept going back.', 'I especially loved the Christmas party they held in 2019 because that time of the year can feel like there’s a lot of pressure to have close people around you. Everyone opened gifts, ate a lovely dinner together and listened to Christmas music. It was very special.', 'I also like that the group helps us with travel to get to meetings and to go to Pride marches and festivals. But most of all, I like how easily coordinators and members welcome people with different backgrounds.', 'I especially felt their support before my main refugee interview with the Home Office in February 2021.', 'They provided testimonies to the Home Office with proof that Lina and I were really part of the queer community and that we weren’t lying about who we were. They also helped me practise the interview too.', 'It was both practical and emotional support in what was a very trying time.', 'No wonder that I was scared to lose their support by coming out as non-binary.', 'But they have never made me feel that women’s rights and trans rights somehow contradict each other.', 'Trans people are not enemies of women; actually, we are all harmed by the same system that judges us not for who we are but by gender ‘norms’ that were forced onto us by birth. I think many women’s organisations could learn from groups like LASS and accept gender diversity.\xa0', 'In the last few years since coming to the UK, I have helped the group embrace trans people more through seemingly small gestures – like encouraging everyone to declare their pronouns and waving the trans flag or holding a banner during Sheffield Pride last year.', 'Initiatives like LASS make Sheffield the place I like today – a very diverse city that’s ready to accept human differences.\xa0', 'I am not worried about being the only non-binary person in a group anymore.', 'In fact, I hope that more non-binary people will join it. But for now, I am happy to be accepted and loved for who I am.', 'In December last year, Lina and I were delighted to finally be granted refugee status.', 'It’s difficult to find a job when you have a five-years old gap in employment, but volunteering with LASS gave me purpose. I’ll forever be thankful for their support.']"
212,"['My phone buzzed and I answered it with trepidation.', 'It was 15 August 2021 and the call was from my job, urging me not to go into work that day.', 'The unthinkable had happened – the Taliban had taken control of Kabul and my life was in immediate danger. This is because I worked at the airport for the International Security Assistance Force, which helped provide protection to NATO and US staff, but the Taliban was against them.', 'As a result, I had no choice but to flee my home country. Almost three years later, I’m now in the UK, but I’m being forced to uproot my life yet again.', 'Before the Taliban took over, my life in Afghanistan was great. I had a stable job and was earning good money.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'But when both the US and NATO pulled out of the country in the weeks and months leading up to that fateful day in Kabul, I became increasingly nervous.', 'No one could believe that the Taliban could capture the capital, let alone so rapidly within a two-week offensive.', 'As soon as I received the alert about not coming into work, I packed a bag and left my home immediately – informing my family of my plans to flee the country to neighbouring Pakistan.', 'Lucky I did, because Taliban fighters actually came to my house that very same night and asked my brother where I was. He lied and said he didn’t know.', 'By the very next day, I had made my way to Pakistan on foot.', 'After two or three days, I decided to go to Iran, then to Turkey because I had some family there. I stayed there for around a year while I came up with a plan for what to do – including finding a good smuggler to get me to safety in Europe.', 'Eventually, I crossed the border into Greece, then a boat to Italy, and then onto France.', 'I started attending college and I feel lucky to be able to study, while I also go to prayers each week at a local mosque', 'This is where I thought I might stay, but people I met there advised me to go to the UK because I knew the language better and I was told it was a country that was sympathetic to the plight of Afghans.', 'Many people advised me not to cross the English Channel on a small boat because it was too dangerous, so there were smugglers I paid to get on a lorry and come by truck.', 'When I finally arrived on UK soil in April last year, I felt relieved and happy that my journey was finally over. Thankfully, I was able to update my family via WhatsApp to tell them that I was safe.', 'After a short Home Office interview where I provided my ID card to prove that I worked with NATO, I was given an address for accommodation in Haringey while I waited for my main interview.', 'It’s a small, quiet hotel in a good north London location that houses up to 30 people.', 'This is where I first came across the Haringey Migrant Support Centre, who have been supporting me with advice and casework support, as well as connecting me with Duncan Lewis Solicitors. My interview with the Home Office is actually this week so I’m nervous but hopeful about that.', 'I received notice from the Home Office contractor managing the hotel I’m staying in that they’re closing it down. I was devastated', 'Over the last year or so, I started attending college and I feel lucky to be able to study, while I also go to prayers each week at a local mosque. Unfortunately, I cannot work while I’m waiting for an asylum decision so I struggle with the forced idleness of my situation.', 'But to further complicate things, in December last year, I received notice from Clearsprings – the Home Office contractor managing the hotel I’m staying in – that they’re closing it down. I was devastated because I was only just starting to feel settled.', 'I was to be moved to Napier Barracks, but it’s quite far from the support network I’ve built up in Haringey so I didn’t want to go there. Thankfully, my local MP, Catherine West, intervened and the relocation did not go ahead.', 'Instead, the Home Office tried to send me on the Bibby Stockholm barge – an engineless barge for asylum seekers, where someone took their own life last year. I didn’t want to end up with the same fate so my lawyer successfully appealed the decision.', 'Up Next', 'I don’t know where I’ll be sent next but I’ve been told that I’ll find out this week. All I know is that the Haringey hotel will be closed by 19 April so I’ll have to accept whatever new accommodation I’m given.', 'I’m devastated because I likely won’t be able to go to my local mosque or supermarket anymore. The distance will be too far and the costs of transport too great. My life was finally starting to feel somewhat settled and this is the last thing I needed right before my big Home Office interview.', 'Of course, I hope for a positive decision on my asylum case this week. Then I hope to be able to get a job to be able to pay for my own accommodation.\xa0', 'The Government needs to clear the asylum seeker backlog so that people like me can get on with our lives. I worked with NATO and I wouldn’t have left Afghanistan if my life wasn’t in danger – surely this work with western countries should count for something.', 'I may not know where I’m going to be living in the UK but thankfully, at least I’m in a country where I feel safe. My family – who are still in Pakistan – aren’t so lucky.', 'I don’t know what will become of them and there’s so much uncertainty right now. All I want is for some sense of stability right now.', 'As told to James Besanvalle, via translator provided by Clear Voice.', 'The name of the author has been changed to protect his identity. For more information about Haringey Migrant Support Centre, visit their website here.']"
213,"['Walking down to the sea on a beautiful sunny day with Aryan* – the young Afghan asylum seeker who lives with me – we were elated.', 'He had just had his asylum application fast-tracked, so we were taking in the waterfalls around us in North Devon to celebrate.', 'Aryan said, ‘This looks just like my province of Kunar’. Like Exmoor – where we live – Kunar is very green and hilly, with the water running through lovely wooded areas all the way down towards the sea.', 'On our way home, I took a rest and Aryan went over to the river to pray. A couple walked past and, after stopping to take in the scene, they held up their own hands in prayer with his.', 'This exchange made me feel so hopeful that these two people stopped to make a point of solidarity with him. It was a beautiful moment.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I met Aryan after a dark period of my life.', 'David, my husband of 47 years, passed away on 10 April 2019.', 'In the aftermath, I told my family and friends that I was doing OK but, really, I was numb. I couldn’t even go to the places I used to visit or listen to the music I once enjoyed because it might make me remember my husband and I’d cry.', 'I woke up one morning and thought, ‘I cannot spend another 30 years living this unhappily’. ', 'My neighbour was volunteering at the local asylum hotel and – with my background as a nurse – she encouraged me to join her.', 'So I started volunteering there in January 2023.', 'On my first day at the hotel, I was meant to be assisting the GP, but all the volunteers were overloaded. Within about five minutes, I was picking up the phone to the local school to get a place for one of the boys.', 'After that first hectic day, I knew I had to come back.', 'With time, the hotel residents began to trust us. When we were together, we laughed and laughed.', 'Aryan was quieter than some of the other residents, so it took me longer to get to know him. It was right at the end of March when we first sat down for a proper chat.', 'Aryan was a 22-year-old soldier in the Afghan army who fled for his life after the killing of his father and other family when the Taliban returned to power in August 2021.', 'After escaping, he was brutally beaten trying to cross several borders and he almost drowned crossing the Channel.', 'Upon reaching the UK, he became unwell due to the cold and damp conditions at Manston processing centre. There were hundreds of people in one camp, cramped without proper food or water, and Aryan told me he was given a thin blanket to sleep on the concrete floor in the freezing cold.', 'By the time he arrived at the asylum centre, he still had not fully recovered.', 'When he first told me his story, it took my breath away how humans could do this to one another. He was showing me pictures of his sister and brother, and the Taliban killing his father. My heart was broken and all I could do was listen and show that I cared.', 'Unfortunately, the hotel closed on 20 May and we do not have a clear answer as to why. Still, when the news came through, I decided to offer Aryan a home and he was very keen on the idea.', 'I had always planned to ask someone from the hotel to live with me and I was sure Aryan was the right person. So after checking in with the community sponsorship programme, it was settled.', 'During the first few days, I asked Aryan to choose which bedroom he wanted and I left him to sort out his room. He brought tonnes of photographs with him and sellotaped them to the wall.', 'My kids were never allowed to stick things to the wall and they joked it was not fair that I allowed him to. But being at the hotel teaches you that there’s more going on in life than a bit of sellotape.', 'Of course, there have been some strange moments. Aryan does a lot of the cooking, but once, I came downstairs into the kitchen early on when we were living together and he said ‘eggs, please’.', 'He just did not have the language to ask politely for what he wanted and I said, ‘No, that’s not how you ask, it’s like this’.', 'I left shortly after just to feed my friend’s cat and when I returned, Aryan thought I had reported him to the police. Even now, he thinks if he does something wrong, the police will come and either send him back to Afghanistan or even to Rwanda.', 'As long as he waits for refugee status, he lives with the fear that his claim will be rejected or dismissed. That really stays with him.', 'It is not unique to Aryan either. They all feel like this.\xa0\xa0', 'But Aryan is part of our family now. In fact, he often reminds me of my grandson. He eats all the food and he likes to be cheeky, even playing little pranks on me — and calls me ‘grumpy Pam’!', 'He loves to tend to the garden and is a wonderful cook, making incredible korma and biryani.', 'Most of all, Aryan is extremely kind, and our differences have never been a hurdle. I adore coming home to the sound of his Afghan music and his friends.', 'Our small village has welcomed him with open arms, too. Like when Aryan joined the local cricket club, they made sure he was fully kitted up.', 'The first time he played, everyone in the crowd applauded and some even cried when he got his first wicket. He then taught cricket at the local primary school and all the children adored him.', 'So when I see politicians talking about getting rid of refugees and stopping the boats, it simply does not sit with what we have experienced as a village – and it makes me feel so disillusioned with my country.', 'This is not what the public wants. I do not know anyone who truly agrees with sending people to Rwanda, including Conservatives. I feel gutted to have a government who thinks this is acceptable. It makes me feel ashamed to be British.', 'The asylum system is letting Aryan and so many others down. As residents at the hotel, there were solicitors, paramedics, doctors, teachers – so many wonderful people forced to sit idle and feel helpless because they are not allowed to work, and their claims were delayed.', 'The future is uncertain right now, but Aryan wants to join the British army – he even has a British flag and an Afghan flag hung up together in his bedroom. I know, eventually, he would love to get married and have children.', 'Aryan just wants what any young person would – a settled future – and I really encourage anyone to volunteer with people seeking safety. Whether for an hour here and there or hosting someone, we all have something to offer.', 'Hosting Aryan has completely changed my life for the better.', '* Name has been changed']"
214,"['Cate Blanchett’s latest Cannes Film Festival 2024 dress appeared to resemble the Palestinian flag.', 'When the Tar actress, 55, took to the red carpet for The Apprentice premiere last night, fans were convinced that her Jean Paul Gaultier dress was specifically designed to show solidarity for Palestine amid the ongoing bombardment of Gaza at the hands of Israel.', 'Suspicion arose when Cate waved around the skirt of her dress to expose an unusual bright green lining', 'Coupled with a black front and a light back against the crimson backdrop of the red carpet, fans were convinced the gown was intended to represent the colours of the Palestinian flag.', 'Vogue Arabia’s editor Livia Firth took to social media with a snap of the red carpet moment, and seemed to think it was indeed a pro-Palestine flag from the A-lister, as she said: ‘I LOVE U CATE 🙌 cannes #cannesfilmfestival when the carpet has meaning.’ ', 'Other fans flocked to support Cate, as @ZahiraJaser said: ‘When I grow up I want to become Cate Blanchett, and have the subtlety to think the carpet is already red, so I can just wear a black & white dress with green lining to make such a strong point.’ ', 'Sharing a photo of the look, @DrLoupis wrote: ‘Cate Blanchett at the Cannes Film Festival wearing a Palestine dress.’', 'Meanwhile, @D_ebotri said: ‘Cate Blanchett coordinated her outfit to look like the flag of Palestine on the red carpet in Cannes 👑 This woman.’', '@ayshataryam wrote: ‘Cate Blanchett in Jean Paul Gaultier at the Cannes Film Festival 2024. It’s all in the details. Legend.’', 'Others weren’t so convinced though, pointing out that the back of the dress appears to be a very light baby pink as opposed to white. ', 'In October, Cate was among 55 Hollywood stars who signed an open letter to President Joe Biden urging for a ceasefire in Gaza and Israel. ', '‘We urge your administration, and all world leaders, to honor all of the lives in the Holy Land and call for and facilitate a ceasefire without delay – an end to the bombing of Gaza, and the safe release of hostages,’ said the letter, also signed by Kristen Stewart, Ramy Youssef, Joaquin Phoenix, and Riz Ahmed. ', 'A month later, Cate – who is the goodwill ambassador for UN Refugee Agency UNHCR – urged the European Parliament to challenge the ‘dangerous myth’ that every refugee is ‘headed to Europe’. ', '‘I am not\xa0Syrian. I am not Ukrainian. I am not Yemeni. I am not Afghani. I am not from South Sudan. I am not from Israel or Palestine,’ she began.', '‘I’m not a politician. I am not even a pundit. But I am a witness.', '‘And having witnessed the human cost of war, violence and persecution, visiting refugees from across the globe, I cannot look away.’ ', 'The Ocean’s 8 star continued: ‘I urge each and every one of you here today to stand firm in challenging the dangerous myth pedalled far too widely and stoking far too much fear and hostility that each and every refugee is headed here to Europe.’ ', 'Cannes Film Festival comes after Eurovision 2024 saw Israel’s contestant go through to the final amid booing crowds and end up in fifth place.', 'Eden Golan was forced to change the lyrics and title of her song – formerly called October Rain – to Hurricane after it was believed to be a nod to the October 7 Hamas attack. ', 'In Gaza, Israeli tanks recently rolled into the ‘lifeline’ Rafah crossing, which provided an essential escape route into Egypt for those fleeing war, and was also a crucial aid route. ', 'Seven months since October 7, and 35,000 have been killed in Gaza and over 1,200 in Israel.']"
216,"['LGBT+ refugees find sanctuary from prison, public lashing and persecution when they come to Britain – but many face homelessness and abuse in the process.', 'Nowadays you’ll see Yew Fook Sam walking the streets of Liverpool in his rainbow suspenders.', 'When Pride comes around, his whole outfit is a sea of colours, even by his standards.', 'But this 72-year-old, known to friends as Sam, spent five years trying to convince the Home Office he is a gay man who faces persecution back in Malaysia.', 'Ten times the UK government rejected his asylum applications because he didn’t have a boyfriend.']"
217,"['‘Apart from your family, who else noticed you were behaving femininely?’', '‘Were you in a gay relationship in Burma?’\xa0', 'I had to wait 16 months for an asylum interview in the UK, because my life was at risk if I returned home, only to be asked these intrusive questions.', 'It felt like a slap in the face.\xa0', 'Luckily, I had photos and messages showing that I have been intimate with men to ‘prove’ my sexuality. If I hadn’t, I can’t safely say that I’d be alive.', 'Growing up as a queer person in Burma was difficult.\xa0', 'My society discriminates against LGBTQ+ people – deeming us as public nuisances, and the police regularly target us with sexual and physical violence. Sexual activity between men is criminalised – as is being trans.', 'After the 2021 Myanmar military coup of the elected government, the police ramped up their attacks on LGBTQ+ people – protesting, detaining, abusing, and sentencing us.\xa0', 'I had to hide my sexuality to avoid being caught by the police, who would sexually assault me in the worst possible ways. Right now, I have queer friends who are being abused in prisons, and that is a horrifying thought.\xa0', 'With thousands of members from all over the world, our vibrant LGBTQ+ WhatsApp channel is a hub for all the latest news and important issues that face the LGBTQ+ community.', ""Simply\xa0click on this link, select ‘Join Chat’ and you’re in! Don't forget to turn on notifications!"", 'I came to the UK in October 2021, living as a student. It felt freeing as people in London are so accepting and celebratory – not to mention the laws and policies protecting LGBTQ+ people.', 'However, my circumstances quickly changed.\xa0', 'I was directly persecuted by the Burmese military, who caught hold of my political activities and sexuality and threatened my family so they would cut contact with me or send me to the military if I were to ever return to Burma.', 'I claimed asylum, knowing that I would never be able to return home, or reunite with my family anytime soon. I hoped that I’d be protected, with the process taking around six months. This wasn’t the case.\xa0', 'The day I went to the asylum centre for my screening interview, I was in utter shock at how they treated vulnerable people.', 'They yelled at a disabled girl for sitting on a bench. Told an Albanian asylum seeker that he was treating this as a ‘joke’ because he said he lost his passport when trying to get here.', 'I had to wait six hours in the waiting room to be told that the screening interview was not happening and that I would be called tomorrow instead.', 'After the initial screening interview, I was left to wait over a year for my asylum interview, despite emailing MPs and the Home Office for a timeline on the interview.', 'Shockingly, I was even asked if there was a secret location in Burma where gay men met for solicitation', 'I was having constant anxiety and panic attacks about whether I would get my refugee status. If not, I would have to return to my home country –\xa0facing prison or even death. I worried about whether the Home Office had forgotten about my case, or if I’d misplaced any of their letters.', 'And, when the interview invitation letter came, I was given as little as four days to prepare.', 'The interviewer was hostile, facially expressing disbelief in the things I said. I had to supply physical evidence of my ex-partner and I, along with text messages and proof that we lived together.\xa0', 'Essentially, I was being questioned about the validity of my sexuality in case I was playing the system.', 'I was asked how long we’d been together for, for his passport and bills to prove our relationship – as well as why my sexuality was important to me. If we’d planned on getting married.', 'Shockingly, I was even asked if there was a secret location in Burma where gay men met for solicitation.', 'I answered every question calmly, and with details, knowing that the interviewer was looking for reasons to reject my claim.\xa0', 'It was a completely dehumanising experience, stripping down my sexuality to my relationship and sexual nature. I laughed when the question about marriage was asked, as I found it bizarre to ask this question to someone in their mid-twenties. The interviewer shut it down, stating that if my relationship was real, I would’ve had plans.\xa0', 'Humiliated, I felt that, if my sexuality wasn’t believed, I would be classified as someone gaming the system. That if I didn’t have enough, or the right evidence, I could be rejected and deported back to an unsafe country that wished me harm.', 'I had several panic attacks and constant stress during the period of waiting for my asylum approval. Had I answered in the right way? Given enough evidence? Had I proved I was ‘gay enough’?\xa0', 'I was so worn down by the waiting that, by the end, I couldn’t eat or sleep properly.\xa0', 'Finally, the asylum decision letter came after a month of waiting, and I got my refugee status. I felt incredibly relieved, joyful, and finally relaxed.', 'I could start a new chapter in this country by finding happiness, rest, and hopefully love.\xa0', 'While I do feel happier, the hostile asylum process in this country deeply traumatised me, leaving me with intense PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder), anxiety attacks, and constant fatigue. I am currently in therapy to recover from the damages that the Home Office inflicted.\xa0', 'The Home Office needs to understand that LGBTQ+ people seeking asylum must be treated with dignity and respect. That means having caseworkers who are educated on LGBTQ+ issues, not asking intrusive questions, and providing physical, financial, and emotional support to people seeking safety.\xa0', 'The Home Office must believe queer people are seeking safety even if they have never been in a relationship – or are in the closet.\xa0', 'There are no right ways to be gay or to express your gender identity, and to put that level of proof on us is discriminatory, not evidence-based, and cruel.\xa0', 'Today, the government can start building a welcoming, and efficient asylum system that protects those seeking safety over punishing them. ', 'For me, the whole asylum process was dehumanising and degrading. I am a human being deserving of basic dignity and respect – the government would do well to remember that.']"
219,"['Storai Ahmadi had a busy life in Kabul, Afghanistan, working as a programme manager with Women for Women International. ', 'After working her eight hour shift, she would go to classes to complete her Master’s Degree in business.', 'Those days are now memories, she says, almost three years after the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan in August 2021.', 'Storai is one of thousands of Afghan refugees who arrived in the United Kingdom after the Taliban takeover ushered in a new wave of crackdowns on human rights.']"
220,"['My phone’s calendar is full of reminders.\xa0', 'At the beginning of the war in Ukraine, my friends and I guessed the date we thought it would be over by and put them in my diary.\xa0', 'Some people optimistically said it would last a few weeks or months, while others predicted a year or so.', 'As the days went on, I felt a pang of sadness and pain in my heart whenever I’d get a notification that another deadline had passed.', 'Nowadays, I don’t actually have any more notifications coming up. That’s because literally none of us guessed this war would still be raging on – almost two and a half years since it began on 24 February 2022.', 'I was born and raised in Kyiv, Ukraine. I’m a city girl through and through, who loves to travel and spend time with my friends.', 'Then I met my husband and we had our son, Daniel. It might sound like a cliche but life was perfect for me – I felt settled and happy.', 'In the weeks leading up to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, there were whispers that it might happen. As a result, I noticed friends and neighbours stockpiling resources like food and petrol, as well as preparing suitcases in case they needed to flee quickly.', 'Up Next', 'I honestly didn’t believe anything would happen though, so I didn’t. In fact, I went on a skiing holiday to Turkey in early February.', 'Once back in Kyiv, I needed to go to the western Ukrainian city of Lviv for a few days for my studies. Unfortunately, my husband had Covid-19 at the time, so I took Daniel – who was eight at the time – with me, as well as my mum to help me look after him.', 'We packed small suitcases, rented an AirBnb for five days in the centre of the city, and drove for about half a day to get there.\xa0', 'A few days later – on the morning of the invasion on 24 February – I was woken up by sirens blaring throughout the city. As soon as I realised what was going on, I started to panic.', 'Lviv was far away from the invasion of the country and I knew it wasn’t safe to try to go back to Kyiv. But our stay in our rented accommodation was coming to an end and everywhere else was booking up fast – we felt helpless.', 'I called my husband, who said he was going to stay, but he said we should flee the country for our own safety. I felt so conflicted.', 'Mum had a goddaughter in Poland who offered for us to stay with her, so that same evening, we got in our car and drove to the Polish border. I’m so glad we left almost immediately because we only spent about nine hours at the border, when I heard stories of others spending days waiting.', 'Once we got to the Polish city of Wroclaw and we didn’t know what to do. Thankfully, by March, the UK announced the Homes for Ukraine scheme so we decided to start the process of applying for that.', 'I had been to the UK before and I can speak English so it made sense to go there.', 'As I had already got my permission, so we started driving towards the UK, hoping that my mother and Daniel would get their permission too. However, it took almost three more weeks for them to receive their visas.', 'During this time, we spent a few weeks in Germany and Belgium. It was very stressful for us.', 'Throughout this time, that’s when the guesses from friends and loved ones about the end of the war happened.', 'In the background to all of this, the uncertainty of the whole situation caused me so much stress. There would be moments where I’d catch myself feeling irritated about people around me having fun – couldn’t they see what was going on in the world?', 'On top of that, I couldn’t sleep properly and would jump awake in the middle of the night. Daniel felt this too, asking me if he could sleep in my bed. One time, he heard a noise and hid on the floor, frightened.', 'By 25 April, everything was approved for us in the UK so we flew out that day. I felt relief, but also sadness to be leaving both my home country and loved ones – not knowing when we might be able to return.', 'We eventually settled in Buckinghamshire, which is a lot different to the capital city vibe where we lived in Kyiv – it’s very green and a lot slower than we’re used to but it’s not too far away from the big city of London. Daniel loves his school and I try to support him with his education here as best as I can.', 'Today, my husband is still in Ukraine, but we speak to him regularly. It’s made difficult by regular power cuts and blackouts that make speaking to loved ones hard.', 'I’ve organised and attended numerous events for Ukrainians, where people can learn more about our culture and our lives in the UK. This is where I met someone from UK for UNHCR.', 'So when UK for UNHCR asked me earlier this year if I would take part in their ‘Cuppa Hope’ campaign – which brought together refugees and members of the public to share their stories with – I jumped at the chance. It’s all well and good putting out stats and survey results, but conversations about our lives in casual settings like sharing a cup of tea can be so powerful.', 'I brought my favourite tea with me – lemon, ginger, mint and honey – to share with everyone and the reception was great.', 'As for the future, I try not to think about it too much. I don’t know when I’ll be able to go back to Ukraine.', 'I told myself that I’ll properly think about it all when the war is over and Ukrainians can begin rebuilding our lives.', 'Judging by all the guesses of dates in my calendar that have now expired, I’ve frozen my expectations.', 'However, I still have hope, which remains deep in my heart.', 'As told to James Besanvalle']"
221,"['BBC radio DJ Sara Cox has revealed the close bond she shares with a Ukranian refugee and her newborn baby that she lives with – even attending the youngster’s birth.', 'The author and broadcaster opened her doors to the woman, who was six months pregnant at the time, following the war between Russia and Ukraine which has seen hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian people displaced from their homes.', 'Sara said the woman was ‘part of the family now’, even recently attending the birth of her baby.', 'In a new interview, she explained how the front room of her house had been newly decorated and ‘reborn’ after her houseguest departed.', '‘We had a Ukrainian guest sleeping in there for six months. She had a baby recently. She’s part of the family now.', '‘I was at the birth and she came back here with her newborn, so this room has been very much a private area for this mum and baby. When she left it needed to be rebirthed itself and begin its story again.’', 'Several stars opened their doors to Ukrainian people since Russia invaded the country in 2022, including Benedict Cumberbatch, Sir Rod Stewart, Rachel Riley, and Chris Tarrant.', '‘Sadly, they are undergoing some medical treatment – to say anything more about that would be an invasion of their privacy and too much about when they’re coming and how that’s being managed would invade mine – but I want to give them some stability after the turmoil that they’ve experienced, and that’s within my home.’', 'Sir Rod rented a Berkshire home for a family of seven who fled the conflict, saying they were ‘lovely’ and ‘so grateful.’', 'The singer also hired trucks filled with supplies for refugees and had them driven to Ukraine, before transporting 16 people to Berlin.', 'Former Who Wants to be a Millionnaire? host Chris said housing a Ukrainian family ‘enhanced’ his home life.', '‘They’ve been with us since the beginning of the war,’ he said during an interview on Good Morning Britain. ‘They were sleeping on the floor of airports in Poland before they came to us. The actual exit from Ukraine is just a horror story.’', 'He continued: ‘They have enhanced my life, these people. I mean I know I’ve had my own kids but this baby is so sweet.', '‘She was seven months, now if she had stayed she’d be on the front of a tank or something. I mean the idea of what happened and how they got away is just extraordinary.’', 'Got a story?']"
222,"['Boxer Cindy Ngamba is hopeful of winning a medal at the Paris 2024 Olympics – but has vowed never to go back to her home country of Cameroon.', 'Ngamba left the African nation aged just 11 with her family to head to the UK, where they settled in Bolton, eventually being granted asylum status years later.', 'She picked up boxing a decade ago, but while she trains with GB Boxing and had hoped to represent Great Britain at the games, she has been prevented from doing so after failing to attain a British passport in time.', 'As such, in Paris she is representing the 37-athlete strong Refugee Olympic Team and was one of their flagbearers in the opening ceremony.']"
226,"['The woman accused of being first to spread the fake rumours about the Southport killer which sparked nationwide riots has been arrested.', 'Racist riots spread across the country after misinformation spread on social media claiming the fatal stabbing was carried out by Ali Al-Shakati, believed to be a fictitious name, a Muslim aslyum seeker who was on an MI6 watchlist.', 'A 55-year-old woman from near Chester has now been arrested on suspicion of publishing written material to stir up racial hatred, and false communication. She has since been released on bail.', 'While she has not been named in the police statement about the arrest, it is believed to be Bonnie Spofforth, also known as Bernie, a mother-of-three and the managing director of a clothing company.', 'Spofforth, 55, posted the false claim at 4.49pm on Monday, July 29, the day of the attack, saying: ‘Ali Al-Shakati was the suspect, he was an asylum seeker who came to the UK by boat last year and was on an MI6 watch list. If this is true, then all hell is about to break loose.’', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The businesswoman, who lives in a £1.5million farmhouse in Cheshire, told MailOnline she ‘first received this information from somebody in Southport’.', '‘I’m mortified that I’m being accused of this. I did not make it up’, she said.', '‘My post had nothing to do with the violence we’ve seen across the country.', '‘But I acknowledge that it may have been the source for the information used by a Russian news website.’', 'Spofforth posted the claim on social media just hours after Bebe King, six, Alice Dasilva Aguiar, nine, and Elsie Dot Stancombe, seven, were stabbed to death at a Taylor Swift-themed dance class.', 'Axel Rudakubana, a 17-year-old born in Cardiff, has been charged with their murder, along with 10 counts of attempted murder and possession of a bladed article in a public place.', '‘It also acts as a warning that we are all accountable for our actions, whether that be online or in person.’', 'But Spofforth’s false claim rapidly spread on social media after being shared by Russian outlet RT and Andrew Tate.', 'It gained an estimated 27million impressions in a single day, according to disinformation researcher Marc Owen Jones, an associate professor at Doha’s Hamid bin Khalifa University.', 'A riot broke out after a vigil in Southport the following day, with a mosque being a primary target of the violence.', 'Chief Superintendent Alison Ross said: ‘We have all seen the violent disorder that has taken place across the UK over the past week, much of which has been fuelled by malicious and inaccurate communications online.', '‘It’s a stark reminder of the dangers of posting information on social media platforms without checking the accuracy.']"
227,"['Manizha\xa0Talash, a member of the refugee Olympic team at the Paris Games, was controversially disqualified from the breakdancing event. ', 'Talash displayed the words ‘Free Afghan Women’ on her cape during her routine in the competition’s pre-qualifiers on Friday.', 'The dancer, who lives in Spain, wore a light blue cape that had the phrase written on it with large white letters during her pre-qualifier loss to India Sardjoe of Netherlands.', 'Political slogans and statements are banned on the field of play and on podiums at the Olympics and breaking’s governing body later said the 21-year-old had been disqualified.', 'Talash\xa0was ‘disqualified for displaying a political slogan on her attire,’ World DanceSport Federation said in a statement.', 'The Paris Games are the third Olympics where a team of refugees is taking part, with 37 athletes competing in 12 different sports including athletics, badminton and boxing.', 'Afghanistan is represented by a contingent of three women and three men, in a largely symbolic move by the International Olympic Committee as a message to the country, which under Taliban rule has restricted women’s and girls’ access to sports and gyms.', 'Both the head of Afghanistan’s national Olympic committee (NOC) recognised by the IOC and its secretary general are currently in exile.', 'The Taliban – who say they respect women’s rights in line with their interpretation of Islamic law and local customs – have closed girls’ high schools, placed travel restrictions on women without a male guardian and restricted access to parks and gyms since seizing power in August 2021.', 'The IOC has said no Taliban official has been accredited for the Games.']"
228,"['Australian breakdancer Raygun became one of the stars of the Paris Olympics following her unique performance.', 'The 36-year-old exited the competition, scoring no points following three rounds of heats, but she certainly left her mark on the competition.', 'Cavorting around the stage, hopping like a demented kangaroo and writhing on the floor may not have been for the judges, but viewers couldn’t get enough of her antics, if not necessarily for the right reasons.', 'Having seemingly displayed little of the co-ordination and dexterity required to compete in the Olympics’ newest sport, many first time watchers questioned how Raygun could have qualified and been selected to represent her country. ', 'Dancing against another breaker named Molly in the WDSF Oceania Breaking Championships, Raygun displayed some of the unique moves that made her a viral sensation on Friday night.\xa0', 'Unfortunately for the dancer, real name Rachael Gunn, there will be no chance for a reprieve in four years time with breakdancing set to be axed from the Los Angeles Olympics. ', 'Vice president of Breaking for Gold USA and USA Dance Zack Slusser said the early axing of the debutant sport was because athletes could not afford it.', '‘It was a miracle that we were even in Paris to begin with,’ he said.\xa0', '‘But for the breaking community, it’s an achievement worth celebrating, even if it doesn’t return to the Olympic stage.’\xa0', 'World DanceSport Federation (WDSF) President Shawn Tay said the organisation was ‘profoundly disappointed’ to have missed out on returning in California in 2028. But he hopes the sport can return in Brisbane.', '‘Our campaign to be added to Brisbane 2032 has already begun and is being ably led by our first vice-president and resident Australian Tony Tilenni,’ Tay said.', '‘Initial reactions from all participants to the breaking presentations, including Brisbane officials at the Australian Olympic Committee’s one year to go to Paris 2024 celebrations, have been highly optimistic about our chances of being added to these Games.’']"
230,"['A newborn has been rescued after being stranded with his parents for three days on the Greek island of Tilos, officials have said.', 'Human traffickers abandoned a group of refugees on the shores of the Aegean Sea – including pregnant women and babies – without food or water.', 'The boy, said to be aged just 50 days old, was among the dozens who became trapped in a mountainous area. ', 'As their recourses ran low, his parents were forced to use seawater to make his milk.', 'After three days, authorities finally rescued the baby, while others were taken away from the area by helicopter.', 'Mayor of Tilos Maria Kamma shared footage of the operation, showing a man cradling the child in his arms before climbing into an inflatable boat.', 'In a post on Facebook, she said: ‘The community of Tilos has once again risen to the occasion, lending a shoulder to the refugees. ', '‘The locals are trying to cope in the best way possible with the “migrant crisis” in their homeland and to help the suffering, the wounded and the distressed people.’', 'Local media reported the baby was safe and healthy. It is not clear how many people were part of the group.', 'Maria also said the baby boy was finally given the name Ionas, likening him to the monk who washed up in Tilos and built the monastery of Agios Panteleimon. ', 'She also said human traffickers are creating a ‘scene of despair’ on the island and claimed some refugees have been ‘badly beaten’.', '‘Pregnant woman trapped in the mountain, infants and children thrown in steep areas of the island, women injured, men beaten badly by traffickers, make up the scene of despair that my island’s society has been experiencing in recent months,’ the mayor added. ', 'She reported that there has been ‘minimal’ assistance from the outside for the island, but praised volunteers for stepping in to fill the gap and help refugees.', 'Greece is one of the gateways into Europe for refugees from the Middle East, Asia and Africa.']"
231,"['Some of the worst crimes happen not under the cover of darkness, but in broad daylight.', 'In Hove, next to my Brighton Pavilion constituency, the Home Office has put vulnerable, unaccompanied asylum-seeking children at risk by placing them in hotels.', 'Not only have scores gone missing – but in Sunday’s Observer, a whistle-blower revealed that some may have been abducted, kidnapped and trafficked.', 'It has since been confirmed that about 200 asylum-seeking children are missing in total, of whom 13 are under the age of 16.', 'This isn’t just happening in Brighton & Hove – it’s happening in several Home Office hotels across the South East.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'And yet all the evidence is that the Home Office isn’t dealing with this scandal.', 'Immigration Minister Robert Jenrick came to the House of Commons this week, to answer my Urgent Question on the matter but it shouldn’t have taken the anger of MPs to secure this update.', 'He reiterated the government’s plans to end the hotels policy ‘as soon as possible’ (though put no date on it) and mentioned a scheme to give £15,000 to local authorities who take eligible young people into their care.', 'There have long been serious concerns about the dangerous practice of using these hotels to house asylum-seeking children.', 'Brighton and Hove City Council sounded the alarm as long as 18 months ago, while Peter Kyle, the MP for Hove who has worked tirelessly on this issue, has argued it was entirely foreseeable that children in these hotels could be snatched, abducted and coerced by criminals.', 'The number of asylum seekers being placed in hotels has been rising, and all through that rise ministers should have proactively been telling Parliament what action they’ve been taking to keep these children safe and remove the risks as well as answering our questions on the issue.', 'These missing children need to be found as soon as possible and their safety guaranteed.', 'Local police services can direct extra resources to missing persons’ teams, but they need dedicated Home Office funding so they can do what’s required to ensure every child can be accounted for.', 'The other immediate step the Home Office should take is to confirm exactly who is responsible for these vulnerable, at-risk children.', 'Local authorities act as the ‘corporate parent’ for those asylum seekers who enter the foster care system, but there is a lack of clarity over who has the legal responsibility for those in hotels.', 'Right now they are in legal limbo and Minister Robert Jenrick has said the Home Office is still apparently considering its legal responsibility – that’s not good enough.', 'We need clarity now so that every single child gets the protection and support they deserve.', 'We need real action to prevent more emergencies of this kind in the future.', 'The Government’s solution is to offer £15,000 to local authorities to help take eligible unaccompanied, asylum-seeking, young people into care.', 'But for that system to work, you need foster care places – and capacity is in seriously short supply.', 'Back in 2021, a report found that England faces a shortfall of 25,000 foster families – and a small cash injection now isn’t going to solve systemic issues.', 'There are still so many other questions that the Home Office is yet to answer.', 'Up Next', 'For one, Why isn’t OFSTED, which maintains standards and good practice in children’s services, inspecting these hotels on a regular basis?', 'We also need ministers to guarantee that everyone contracted through private companies to act as security in the hotels has been DBS background checked – which the Migration Watchdog suggested last October was not the case.', 'Have ministers taken up offers of help from charities working with children – and if not, why not?', 'But the crucial point here is that the hotel model isn’t safe.', 'Let’s not forget – the widespread use of hotels only began in the first place due to a lack of a coherent asylum policy, the result of successive Home Secretaries’ incompetent and inhumane approaches, and their failure to set up safe routes for refugees.', 'I believe our current system fails to treat refugees with dignity and certainly doesn’t treat children like their lives matter.', 'We need an urgent investigation into how so many children have been allowed to go missing on Suella Braverman’s watch, and we need workable alternatives to parking unaccompanied children in hotels, not the sticking plasters and wishful thinking we are currently getting from ministers.', 'The backlog of asylum and visa applications grows bigger by the day. Safe routes for refugees from many countries are still yet to be set up.', 'The threat of the Rwanda deportation policy looms large, with reports even suggesting the threat of being sent to Rwanda is being exploited by the criminals abducting and trafficking children who’ve reached British soil.', 'This can’t go on.', 'My message to the Home Office is crystal clear: every child matters and we need an end to their vile asylum policy before any more go missing.']"
233,"['Standing outside a hotel in Hove, it was probably almost a blink and miss it moment. Children, already terrified and alone in an unknown country, snatched from the street and bundled in cars. ', 'Taken by gangs to be trafficked, these youngsters had travelled to our shores for the chance of a better life – one they are almost certainly now never going to get.', 'The children in question were asylum-seekers, the hotel was run by the Home Office – and the source of this account a whistleblower working for a Home Office contractor.', 'Although the government initially said ‘nothing like that’ had been reported, Home Office minister Lord Murray of Blidworth has since confirmed that the reports are now under investigation. ', 'Since July 2021, 4,600 children have been accommodated in hotels since they were opened – and since then, 200 unaccompanied asylum-seeking youngsters have gone missing.', 'The fear is many of these vulnerable children are preyed upon by child trafficking gangs, who know that once taken, they will be hard to trace.', 'Being taken from your family as a child, only to be sold for sex work, is something that Tracy* is tragically all too familiar with.', 'When she was 15, she remembers being forced through the airport from Spain to England. Her trafficker made Tracy wear sunglasses, so no-one could see her eyes, she also recalls.', 'It was the second flight she had ever taken and she was terrified. Desperate for someone to step in and rescue her, she raised her glasses and with tears in her eyes, silently mouthed ‘help me’ to an airport official.', '‘I just wanted someone to say, “Are you all right? Are you okay?”,’ she says. ‘I was young. I wanted her to ask who was travelling with me. I was desperate for her help.’', 'But the official missed her cry for help, and Tracy was forced to risk her life and flee.', 'Tracy’s story is a harrowing one. Now in her thirties, she was just nine when a relative sold her from Nigeria into a trafficking gang. She was taken to Italy and then Spain, where she was forced into sex work on city streets, suffering untold violence and abuse. It wasn’t until she was taken to London for more ‘work’ that she was able to break free from her captor at King’s Cross. Running through the unknown city streets, she was petrified.', '‘I went underground. If they catch you, and there is a chance they will catch you, [they will] re-traffic you, shoot you or stab you to death,’ Tracey says, her voice breaking. ‘So when you run, you are risking your life.’', 'The terror she speaks of is something that possibly hundreds of refugee children are now feeling, having been taken from the shores they risked their life to get to in search of a better life.', 'Tracy says that she feels for the children being abducted soon after seeking solace on UK shores, who will be scared and lonely in a foreign land.', 'Remembering her enslavement, she says: ‘Every moment you were terrified. You didn’t know what was going to happen in the next second.', '‘When I was first trafficked, I was in a country where I don’t speak the language. It was terrifying. You want to ask for help but you don’t know how. ', '‘I was the youngest among them all, and even if I was able to ask for help, I couldn’t, because the girls I worked with would snitch on you. The traffickers turned us against each other. ', '‘It was just survival.’', 'It has been reported that the Home Office ignored warnings over the risks facing young asylum seekers who arrive here alone. According to Dr Patricia Hynes, professor of social justice at\xa0Sheffield Hallam University, cases such as this are looked at by the authorities as an immigration problem, rather than a child protection one.', '‘Children who arrive into the UK should be safeguarded,’ says Dr Hynes. ‘Placing children in unregulated hotels removes essential oversight of these children and is not in accordance with The Children Act 1989 and any associated ethical practices. The use of hotels was meant to be an emergency measure, but this has now been going on for at least 18 months.', '‘Imagine if your own child went missing – imagine the fears that would conjure up. These children and young people should be treated equally, with the same regard, and not as somehow less deserving than any other child.’', 'Too terrified to seek help from the authorities, Tracy recalls how she ended up sleeping rough, in churches and mosques.', 'Then the trauma hit. She suffered from splitting headaches and endless nights of insomnia and suicidal thoughts. It wasn’t until the pain forced her into Accident and Emergency that she got help.', '‘When I escaped, I couldn’t tell people what my situation was,’ she says. ‘I lived a double life. I showed a happy face, but inside, I wasn’t fine. And I couldn’t share how I was feeling because I couldn’t trust anyone.', '‘The traffickers made me believe that they worked with the police, with doctors, with lawyers. The organisation was very big. You never know who might be a member of that organisation and that fear stops you from getting help. I still don’t trust people fully.', '‘After you escape, people around you say that you are free. That you can move on and that everything is going to be fine. I still don’t feel like it’s going to be fine.', '‘Two decades on, I still struggle because of all I have lost. I missed my education, which is so important. I find things really tough and I get mad at life because so much was taken away from me. Things that can’t be replaced.’', 'Trafficking is a growing problem, according to the latest figures. In 2021, more children than ever before identified as potential victims of modern slavery. In total, 5,468 potential victims were referred to the Home Office, marking a 9% increase on the previous year.', 'These children and young people should be treated equally, with the same regard, and not as somehow less deserving than any other child', 'She says the youngest victim she had worked with was just six years old. He was trafficked from Nigeria and spent ten years cooking and cleaning for a family in the UK, before he was thrown out.', '‘Exploitation can lead to physical injuries and massive emotional effects,’ says Lauren. ‘Someone may experience flashbacks for a really long period of time afterwards, poor mental health, suicidal ideation and/or self harm. They may present as very weak or vulnerable or seem very underdeveloped for their age.’', 'Lauren advises that we all become more suspicious about what we see around us. ', '‘A lot of modern slavery goes on hidden and under the radar,’ she says. ‘If there’s a house on your street where lots of people come and go, but they don’t appear to live there, that is an indication that something might be happening. If there’s an abandoned building that people keep visiting, that’s another indication. ', '‘If you see people in a garden or through the windows, but you never see them come out, or if you are maybe a delivery person or going to someone’s address, you may see things that other people don’t see.’', 'Since it was set up in 2017, the charity Their Voice, which supports trafficked and enslaved people, has seen requests for help more than double. Last year demand for its services outstripped resources available.', 'A spokesperson for Their Voice says: ‘The news of children missing from Home Office hotels along the south coast is a sad reality of how the systems in place are failing and need reform. Some of the most vulnerable in society are being preyed upon by criminal gangs in the UK.’\xa0', 'Barnardo’s CEO Lynn Perry agrees. ']"
235,"['Whenever a politician wheels out the ‘proud record’ line, I’m always dubious.', 'We’re told that Britain has a ‘proud track record’ when it comes to immigration and welcoming refugees, we should be ‘proud’ of our welfare system, or ‘take pride’ in the NHS and those who work within it.', 'But taking pride in our achievements is only valid if we can back it up with supportive evidence. Without that, pride is just another deadly sin.', 'On the immigration issue alone – 200 asylum-seeking children have gone missing after being placed in hotels run by the Home Office, while politicians seem quick to seek to scapegoat those risking life and limb to come to the UK.\xa0', 'Pride? Shame feels more appropriate.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'When people are feeling desperate about the state of our country, that frustration often leads to anger. But we must ensure our anger points in the right direction.', 'In an interview this week, Home Secretary Suella Braverman addressed recent violent rioting outside hotels for asylum seekers. Despite admitting ‘violence, harassment or intimidation’ is ‘not an acceptable way to voice your concerns or frustrations’, she had a pretty compassionate response to rioters.', '‘We are all frustrated with the situation we are currently finding ourselves in,’ she explained. ‘It is clear and undeniable there are really, really serious pressures in communities and saying so does not make you racist or bigoted.’', 'Up Next', 'Yes, we’re frustrated. Yes, there are serious pressures in communities. But if you’re going to refer to asylum seekers as a homogenous ‘invasion’ – like you did just a few months ago – then don’t act surprised when the racists and bigots turn up to the hotels you arranged for refugees to stay in.', 'It’s as if these Tory frontbenchers forget that their party has been calling the shots for the past 13 years. Are they suffering from collective political amnesia? Or is their default position just one of cruelty?', 'Our frustration should be with those in power, not those who are subject to it. Serious pressures on housing, public services and the cost-of-living are problems that weren’t created, nor can be solved, by refugees confined to hotels for the foreseeable future.', 'The Home Office’s piss-poor management and lack of long-term planning has led to further cruelty', 'Perhaps if she had spent a little less time dreaming about that plane taking off to Rwanda and a little more time ensuring that there was sufficient infrastructure to process asylum claims, then she would have something to be proud of.', 'So foiled are her original plans that the Home Office has taken the decision to bypass proper asylum processing and replace it with an 11-page questionnaire in order to clear 12,000 claims in a ‘legacy’ backlog of 92,000 unprocessed applicants.', 'Meanwhile, Braverman pledged to do ‘whatever it takes’ to deter people from crossing the English Channel, including the possibility of leaving the European Convention of Human Rights.', '‘We always treat everyone in a humane way,’ Braverman wrote just months ago. Nothing says ‘humane’ like ripping up a person’s human rights.', 'Up Next', 'Earlier this week, Shamima Begum lost her appeal to regain British citizenship. A girl who says she was groomed online by ISIS at 15 years old and smuggled into Syria as a sex-slave.', 'She watched three of her own children die. The last child died in a refugee camp, after her failed appeal to be brought home.', 'If you can’t find it in your heart to accept that she was groomed and manipulated by a sophisticated group of terrorists, then what about her infant child who may have lived, should they have been brought back to UK soil?', 'If only Sajid Javid – then Home Secretary – had found the compassion to accept that a British girl should face the consequences of her actions in the country that raised her.', 'Today is also the one-year anniversary of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but 4,295 Ukrainian families face homelessness as their Home For Ukraine placement ends, according to Sky News. Short-term government planning has left thousands of vulnerable people without a secure home.', 'We should genuinely be proud of all those who offered up space in their homes for refugees, and provided them with support during a traumatic time.\xa0', 'But does the Government deserve a pat on the back for doing the bare minimum by facilitating a short-term solution without a long term plan? I don’t think so.', '‘Operation Warm Welcome’ was the name of one initiative created by the Home Office for those fleeing Afghanistan. It was a resettlement scheme designed to ensure that Afghan refugees received healthcare, education and employment support in order to fully integrate into society.', 'Earlier this month, 40 families who had spent over a year living in a hotel in Kensington were told they had just one week to relocate to Wetherby, leaving schools and jobs behind.', 'I’ve never worked in a government department, but I know enough to have guessed that while putting refugees up in a four-star hotel in Kensington might not have been sustainable for the long-term, relocating them after a year of integration doesn’t qualify as a ‘warm welcome’.', 'Still, Suella Braverman and co. will continue to shout about the ‘exorbitant’ cost of hotel bills for asylum seekers and refugees without owning up to the fact that there were probably more economical options, if only they had planned better.\xa0', 'Once again, the Home Office’s piss-poor management and lack of long-term planning has led to further cruelty to those who need care and compassion.', 'So much for that ‘proud record’.']"
237,"[""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'Natasha Kaplinsky revealed she didn’t consult her husband Justin Bower before opening her home to a family of Ukrainian refugees.', 'The broadcaster, 49, admitted she couldn’t wait to welcome the family in need and so registered to take them in as soon as she heard of the Homes for Ukraine scheme.', 'Once she had found a family of four that were in need of somewhere to stay via a WhatsApp group, the star then alerted her spouse and children to their new lodgers’ existence.', 'She told Loose Women hosts Ruth Langford, Coleen Nolan, Janet Street-Porter and Dame Kelly Holmes about her experience during Tuesday’s episode.', 'Natasha shared: ‘I didn’t even consult my husband, I just immediately registered I literally didn’t think about it I just registered.', '‘It was a scheme that touched so many people in this country and I think it crashed within minutes of opening because there is such generosity in this country.', '‘It took quite a while to get connected and so I just started a little WhatsApp group and eventually found the family that did come to us and then informed my husband and our two children.', '‘They were just as happy as I was to be able to open our doors to strangers.’', 'Housing the refugees in an annex in her house for the last 10 months, the newsreader admitted the new residents arrived with one suitcase between a mother, father and two children.', 'She also said it was ‘exciting to be that generous to complete strangers’ and explained how her local community had banded together to give them a warm welcome.', 'Following a round of applause from the studio audience, Dame Kelly shared further praise for the presenter and questioned where her ‘kind heart’ came from.', 'The former Strictly Come Dancing star explained that her father was a political refugee who stood up against apartheid in South Africa and that she grew up in Kenya.', '‘It gave me a sense of privilege and constant guilt,’ she said of now living in a ‘safe’ world where she could provide for her children and live comfortably.', ""Dog owners are raving over this 'life-changing', budget-friendly pet food"", 'One application of this gel and my puffy hay fever face was lifted and plump', 'Nail the Western style come festival season with this Free People-inspired jacket', ""'Extremely good' Morrisons wines under £13 you need to try this summer"", '‘Like sleeping on a cloud’ hail shoppers as £12 mattress protector scores glowing reviews', 'Loose Women airs weekdays at 12:30pm on ITV.', 'Got a story?']"
238,"['Children have delivered letters to Gary Lineker’s home, with one expressing support for his stance on refugees.', 'It was confirmed on Friday (March 10) that the footballer-turned-pundit, 62, would\xa0‘step back’ from presenting Match of the Day ‘until an agreement is reached on his social media use’.', 'The controversial decision from the BBC came after Lineker compared the UK government’s language around migrants to the language used in 1930s Germany, on his personal Twitter account, leading to a row with over impartiality.', 'There’s no denying that he’s had the backing of the people, after a plethora of presenters and pundits have now\xa0refused to appear on the BBC show in solidarity.', 'Ian Wright even threatened to leave the BBC should Lineker be sacked,\xa0with the network later confirming Saturday’s MOTD would ‘focus on match action without\xa0presentation or punditry.’', 'But it’s not just TV stars fighting Lineker’s corner, as little ones are also keen to send him messages.', 'Two boys posted letters through the former England footballer’s door in front of a pack of reporters and photographers awaiting comment.', 'Tristan, eight, who did not want to give his surname, turned up with his mother with a letter which said ‘thank you so much’ to the star.', 'His mother said: ‘My son said, “Thank you so much. Thank you for defending the refugees”.’', 'Another boy could later be seen delivering a letter but his parents stayed in the car so reporters did not speak to him.', 'Lineker has previously taken refugees into his home, including a 26-year-old man from Turkey who was caught up in a military coup and escaped 18 months of imprisonment.', 'Last October, Lineker said the man endured ‘hell’ in the UK’s asylum system.', 'He previously offered his Surrey home to a refugee from the Balochistan province of Pakistan.', 'The Linekers received a Pret delivery early on Saturday morning and one of his sons told reporters his father had not yet woken up.', 'Meanwhile, the response of locals in Barnes, south-west London, to the presence of reporters has been mixed.', 'Some locals said ‘leave him alone’ while others were more positive – but none expressed views on the BBC controversy.', 'Some people could be seen pointing at the pack of reporters and photographers from a nearby road and park.', 'Lineker left his home late on Saturday morning and appeared all smiles, but did not answer questions.', 'His son Harry later said he had gone to watch the Leicester City match.', 'On Thursday, before he was told to step back from Match Of The Day, Lineker was more bullish, saying ‘no’ when asked if he feared suspension over his tweets.', 'He’s yet to speak out on his feelings about the Beeb’s actions, but did confirm to friend and broadcaster Dan Walker that he was ‘asked’ to step back from MOTD, clarifying that it was not of his own accord.', 'Got a story?']"
242,"['Strictly Come Dancing star Katya Jones, 33, has branched out from the dance floor and has gone on the run for Celebrity Hunted in aid of Stand Up To Cancer.', 'Here, the Russian-born TV icon talks being a fugitive with ‘best friend’ Aimee Fuller, the ‘sacrifices’ she’s had to make to carve out a career in dance in the UK, her passion for sustainability, and teaching Ukrainian refugee children to dance.', 'It was a good watch, wasn’t it? We filmed it last summer and didn’t know how it would come out, or how it would be edited. We were extremely pleased! We had a little friends’ gathering to watch it and encourage everyone to donate.', 'It was an intense but surreal experience. It was nice to be on the other side of a project. Normally I provide someone with that experience and make sure they have the best time. This time I was the victim! ', ' Wake up to find news on your TV shows in your inbox every morning with Metro’s TV Newsletter.', 'Sign up to our newsletter and then select your show in the link we’ll send you so we can get TV news tailored to you.', 'But I absolutely loved it. Who wouldn’t want to go on the run with your best friend for two weeks and use all the resources and challenge yourself in multiple ways? I think we did really well!', 'Not really! It was intense and the paranoia was real from the moment we ran out of the prison, the helicopter trying to hunt us, and it lasted all the way up to the last minute and even a couple of days after. I never experienced anything like it. We learned a lot. We did ourselves proud. ', 'The whole reason me and Amy agreed to do, it apart from the obvious raising money for charity, was to show the other side of us, of two girls that can come across as a bit wild and up for fun. We did have a lot of fun on the run but we can also be highly calculated and smart. Our problem-solving was on point and we work extremely well together as a team. These were important to us as a female duo. ', 'We showed a lot of skill and determination and to us have proven we’re multifaceted than just being physically athletic.', 'Absolutely. It’s such an intense experience and you’ve got to do it with the right person. We were the perfect partnership, we have so many skills between us. Aimee rode motorbikes – you could see us in the motorbike and sidecar in the first episode – but we also did a lot of windsurfing and map reading. It’s so important to work together and support each other. ', 'We also had so much fun. We got the right balance of having fun but being sensible. We got a bit confused, we thought we were going on husband hunting! It was exciting. We met so many new people. And my map reading has improved drastically. I was quite rubbish at it, but I’ve definitely become an accomplished map reader.', 'Ha! I think the magic of this show is you can’t really prepare. You don’t know where the day is going to take you and who you’re going to meet or what skill you need. Our plan was to have no plan. Our mental agility and being fast on our feet and thinking quick on our feet stepped up on that front. All the experiences we had throughout our lives sort of came into the puzzle, that game of hide and seek. ', 'I love sustainability, for example, I’m against fast fashion and I don’t buy much stuff. But we learned we don’t need much at all – we had the tiniest backpack, a couple of pairs of shorts and knickers. I mean, Aimee did come up with five pairs of trainers on day one and I just said ‘what are you doing?’ and we got rid of it all basically on the first day. It shows you that you don’t need much, just good company, and the kindness and generosity of people we met along the way. ', 'It reinstalled that faith in humanity for me. We said our thank yous by inviting [the strangers who helped us] to Strictly, sending them cards and flowers. It really was special. And being off our phones, that didn’t bother us at all. We also didn’t think about what we would look like – we were not attached to makeup or looking pretty or what people would think. Though we did look after ourselves – and red lipstick made an appearance many times.', 'I’m all up for a challenge! I’d like to think I have a lot more skills than just dancing than people may know. If it’s something that shows my other interests and passions then definitely, why not?', 'Actually quite a few! Sustainability is a big passion of mine and something I talk about on my platforms quite a lot. For over a year I didn’t buy any new clothes at all. I love upcycling, I love making new things from old stuff; charity shopping is right up my street. ', 'I’m a National Numeracy Ambassador, I don’t think a lot of people would expect that of me. It’s actually National Numeracy Day coming up on May 17. I’m a person who doesn’t come from a mathematical background, I don’t have a degree in maths. But I think people can connect with it, like ‘I’m not great at it but I’m not scared.’ We can all improve on it. I hear people say, ‘I can’t dance,’ and year after year I prove them wrong. And it’s exactly the same with maths and numbers. It’s just another skill we can all improve, you just need to take that first step without being scared of it. ', 'And I play the piano! I’ve got assessments tomorrow and I’ve just committed to buying a piano. I played as a little girl and I decided to retake it again and I’ve got a great teacher whos taking me right back to the basics.', 'Oh, there’s so much! And you can always find really good deals. Just the other day we went to the premier of the new BBC Earth experience and everybody was encouraged to wear pre-loved outfits. I had an outfit that was fully from charity shops that I upcycled a little bit myself. That was quite a nice outfit! We can wear pre-loved clothes but unfortunately we can’t live on a pre-loved planet … so we should look after it.', 'It’s been seven years now! I’ve completed seven years, and you will probably agree I have had the most incredible partners and journeys. I was part of the Gangnam Style dance, which was a Bafta-nominated routine. I was part of the first same-sex partnership, I have danced with legends: Olympic champions and absolute phenomenal talents. So it would be just impossible, honestly, to pick one moment. Because every year for me is different. ', 'Every year I start with a blank canvas, because the people that I work with are different. They need different approaches, their journeys are different, the stories they want to tell are different and I’m there to assist them and help them tell their stories. I’m just grateful for the time I’ve had, and Strictly has given me an amazing platform as well, to be able to talk about other things and passions of mine that hopefully make a little difference.', 'It’s only when you’re fully in this yourself you can understand what it’s like. You create such a tight bond with your partner and … I’m fully, solely focused on giving them the best experience. I never really look outside. ', 'But you know, we are definitely not competitive within our group, everyone always takes inspiration from each other. We really take our fellow pros’ opinions with great care. It really does matter to us. The energy in the room is always so electric and warm and kind. If somebody does well we’re not shying away from showing how happy we are for them and celebrating those people. ', 'Do you know, I don’t like this question because it’s really unachievable! Let’s be honest, we can dream but dreams are probably all it will ever be. I don’t set myself a certain person or target, but every time, I come to this experience with an open heart and open mind and just [gratitude] to be on the show. ', 'My first-ever partner, Ed Balls, has taken on two families of Ukrainian refugees. The children dance and they are extremely talented, they did extremely well in the World Open Championships not so long ago. And of course, I took time off to teach them.', 'It was absolutely wonderful and they are so talented, so talented. It was a great way of sharing my knowledge and my expertise. I’ve been dancing for almost 30 years … so they have huge respect for myself as well. And for me to be able to share that knowledge with them was just priceless really. It was fabulous, I think I’ll see them again soon. ', 'I think she would be extremely proud, obviously! It really is a bit of a pinch-me moment every single time, to think that ballroom dancing – something so traditional and that can be looked at as old-fashioned – has got me to where I am today.', 'I’ve travelled the world, I’ve met some incredible people. Even though I have to make a lot of sacrifices, like leaving my family behind, it has given me life experience and given me new hope and a dream job. And ultimately, I love helping people. I feel like that’s my main destiny, to make a difference to people’s lives Whether it’s by dancing or just making them happy, sharing my experience or just making people smile.', 'I never thought that that would get me to where I am today but I will never take it for granted. I’ll never get complacent. There’s a lot more to give and a lot more to achieve and a lot more to share with the world. ', 'Celebrity Hunted continues Tuesday at 9pm on Channel 4. ', 'Got a story?']"
243,"['A three-year-old girl from the UK is one of four children who was stabbed at a park in France today.', 'Foreign secretary James Cleverly has confirmed the child was a British national.', 'The youngster has been taken to Grenoble hospital with a stab wound, according to French media outlet CNews.', 'At least six people were injured in the horrifying attack at a lakeside children’s playground in the French Alps town of Annecy this morning.', 'A brother and sister, aged two and three, are in intensive care, while a 22-month old boy from Germany was seriously injured in the mass stabbing. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Two adults, including a 70-year-old man, were also knifed shortly before 10am local time.', 'Police have arrested a 31-year-old Syrian national, who had refugee status and had legally returned to France in 2022, according to BFMTV.', 'Up Next', 'He is said to have applied for asylum in France after acquiring refugee status in Sweden. ', 'The suspect is also reportedly married to a Swedish woman and is the father of a three-year-old child. ', 'Mr Cleverly said: ‘We have already deployed British consular officials who are travelling to the area to make themselves available to support the family.', '‘And of course we stand in strong solidarity with the people of France at this terrible time.’', 'French President Emmanuel Macron described the attack as one of ‘absolute cowardice’.', 'Of the victims, he said ‘children and an adult are between life and death’.', '‘The nation is in shock,’ he tweeted.', 'National police said two of the children suffered life-threatening injuries, as did one adult.', 'In Paris, politicians interrupted a debate to hold a moment of silence for the victims.', 'Assembly president Yael Braun-Pivet said: ‘There are some very young children who are in critical condition and I invite you to respect a minute of silence for them, for their families, and so that, we hope, the consequences of this very grave attack do not lead to the nation grieving.’']"
244,"['Immigration minister Robert Jenrick ordered children’s artwork to be painted over at an asylum reception centre, it has been claimed. ', 'Enver Solomon, CEO of the Refugee Council, said Mr Jenrick asked for the paintings of cartoons and animals to be removed at the Kent asylum intake unit earlier this year. ', 'He also allegedly told workers to take down welcome signs to show the centre was a ‘law enforcement environment’, the I reports. ', 'Mr Enver told a Refugee Week event hosted by the Wiener Holocaust Library last week the children’s painting were designed to put lone youngsters at ease.', 'He told the I: ‘The Immigration Minister said pictured of cartoons and animals must be removed and that staff should make sure they are painted over, as they give an impression of welcoming, which Mr Jenrick didn’t want to show.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘This demonstrates that the hostile environment has become so entrenched, that today we have lost sight of humanity.’', 'It comes after the number of Channel crossings reached a new record of 11,000 for the month of June. ', 'This is despite Prime Minister Rishi Sunak pledging to ‘stop the boats’. ', 'His controversial Rwanda deportation scheme was ruled unlawful by three High Court judges.', 'In the judgment, Sir Geoffrey Vos said there were ‘substantial grounds’ to think that asylum seekers faced ‘real risks’ of torture or inhuman treatment, or that their claims for asylum would not be properly determined in Rwanda.', 'Lord Burnett added the court reached its conclusion on the law and took ‘no view whatsoever’ about the political merits of the policy.', 'Mr Sunak issued a blistering statement following the ruling, where he confirmed an appeal would be made to the Supreme Court.', 'He said: ‘While I respect the court I fundamentally disagree with their conclusions.', '‘The policy of this government is very simple, it is this country – and your government – who should decide who comes here, not criminal gangs. And I will do whatever is necessary to make that happen.’']"
245,"['A Ukrainian refugee who was dumped by her British lover after he left his partner and children for her has been charged with assaulting a police officer. ', 'Sofia Karkadym allegedly bit the officer as he tried to arrest her at Tony’s Garnett’s home in Bradford. ', 'The 23-year-old was collecting her belongings when police were called to the property. ', 'She was charged with two counts of assault and accused of biting an officer twice during an altercation. ', 'A warrant has now been issued for Karkadym’s arrest after she failed to show up at Bradford magistrates court. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'She made headlines with Mr Garnett after the pair struck up a relationship whilst living in his home with partner Lorna Garnett. ', 'Karkadym had fled Ukraine following Russia’s invasion and was staying in the couple’s home. ', 'Mr Garnett and Karkadym admitted they were attracted to each other and moved in with his parents. ', 'Despite talking about marriage and spending the rest of their lives together, a series of arguments lead to the pair parting ways. ', 'Karkadym admitted she was unhappy Mr Garnett had had a vasectomy – meaning she was not able to have children with him. ', 'Mr Garnett was regularly spoke fondly about his ex-partner and two children. ', 'Karkadym flew back to the Ukraine last year, but Mr Garnett travelled there and brought her back.', 'The pair split for good three months ago, with Karkadym returning to Mr Garnett’s home to pick up her belongings when a row broke out. ', 'Mr Garnett was pictured outside Bradford magistrates court, but there was no sign of his former lover. ', 'Mr Garnett told MailOnline: ‘I want as little as possible to do with her. As far as I know, she arrived on Wednesday from Ukraine. She had come to collect her things from my place.\xa0', '‘I don’t know where she is now. I am not in touch with her that much because I have a new girlfriend now and I have moved on.’']"
247,"['A group of primary school children left feeling ‘ashamed of their country’ after murals were painted over at an asylum centre in Kent have sent hand-drawn pictures to the young refugees housed there instead.', 'Two classes of pupils, aged between eight and nine, at St Gerard’s Catholic Primary School in Birmingham, have gathered about 100 hand-drawn pictures to send to children at the Kent Intake Centre.', 'The drawings were sent on Friday before the school broke up for the summer holidays, with some pictures also being sent directly to immigration minister Robert Jenrick.', 'It comes after Mr Jenrick said the murals, which included images of Mickey Mouse and other Disney characters, were not ‘age appropriate’ for the majority of young people staying there – but reports claimed he had felt they were ‘too welcoming’.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'The children at St Gerard’s said they felt ‘disappointed’, ‘sad’, ‘angry’, and ‘ashamed of their country’, and they were inspired to do something to make the children feel ‘more welcome’.', 'Eight-year-old Hugo told reporters: ‘When I heard it, it made me feel ashamed of my country because they’re making the children’s centre less welcoming.’', 'Another of the pupils, whose surnames have been omitted at the school’s request, eight-year-old Ophelia, added: ‘It made me feel really sad and angry, because some people in the world aren’t being very nice to them, and I think they should be welcomed everywhere.’', 'Ophelia added that they were inspired to make their own pictures to send to the children, saying: ‘So we made these to send them to the Government so that they could stick them up so they feel welcomed.’', 'The pupils have gathered about 100 drawings so far, while others have written stories for the children to read.', 'Darcey, also eight, said: ‘As soon as I heard that those paintings were being painted over, I almost cried, because I don’t think people should be treated like that because we don’t know what they’re going through.’', 'Nine-year-old Anointing-Shalom said: ‘When I heard that the pictures have been painted over, it made me angry, and it made me feel disappointed because we want them to feel welcomed.', '‘We’re supposed to treat others how we want to be treated.’', 'Hugo said he wanted the children at the asylum centre to ‘recognise they are not alone’ and that ‘there are other people that are with them’.', 'Darcey said she wanted people to recognise that refugee children are ‘like superheroes’ as ‘they’ve been escaping their country and they’ve probably been walking miles and miles to just find safety’.', 'Anointing-Shalom’s message to ‘all the refugees out there’ is ‘to never give up because they’ve come this far and we don’t want to turn them around and push them back’.', 'Of the Government, Ophelia added: ‘I think they should listen to us and change their mind and start being kind to the refugees and giving them things.’', 'Children in the older classes at St Gerard’s have also written letters to their MP, Labour’s Paulette Hamilton, who was said to have written back giving her views and agreeing with the children about what changes they would like to see.', 'Adult refugees from Sudan, Cameroon, Syria and Nigeria also visited the pupils at school last week, through the Stories of Hope and Home charity.', 'As part of the school’s work towards a Schools of Sanctuary award – a national network of more than 400 schools committed to creating a culture of welcome and inclusion for refugees and those seeking asylum – the children at St Gerard’s heard what it was like for refugees to leave their country and seek asylum in the UK.', 'Asked how she felt when hearing their stories, Anointing-Shalom said: ‘It makes me feel ashamed because it makes me feel like the country that I live in is not that friendly if you’re not from here.’', 'Darcey added: ‘It makes me feel very depressed and ashamed, because I think the Government are doing the wrong thing, and they don’t know what it’s like to walk a mile in their shoes.’']"
248,"['Rima Amin, 32, who lives in London, used to only need one word to sum up how she sees the Conservative government’s immigration policy.', 'These days, however, she needs two.']"
252,"['As Robert Jenrick was inspecting a children’s refugee centre in Kent in July, he saw a Disney-style mural and,\xa0according to Enver Solomon, CEO of the Refugee Council,\xa0said it gave ‘an impression of welcoming’, which he ‘didn’t want to show.’', 'So he reportedly demanded it was painted over, and while the Home Office didn’t respond directly to questions on the mural, Jenrick later claimed in the House of Commons that changes to the site were made to make it more ‘age appropriate’.', 'When I first heard about this, I felt furious.', 'But remarkably, this started a series of events that ended up so breathtakingly positive it has brought people I know to tears.', 'Angered by the casual censorship (of actual cartoons!) I got in touch with the refugee centre in question, offering to get a bunch of us national cartoonists – from the Professional Cartoonists Organisation (PCO) – together to repaint it.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I sent out a post on X (formerly known as Twitter) saying as much and was bombarded with offers of tea, cake, free paint, crowdfunding and lots of mural artists to help out.', 'However, after looking into it, the political tripwires and access permissions of the centre made it unworkable. So I wrote an open letter detailing how ‘utterly appalled’ I was with Jenrick’s actions.', 'That’s when we at the PCO – a politically neutral organisation – got our heads together. This project would be just for the kids.', 'Our treasurer, Amy Amarni, came up with the idea of a colouring book for refugee children as a small token of fun and distraction. It was perfect.', 'A page each – of black and white scenes, many depicting life in Britain – by every top cartoonist in the country, who I would try to recruit.', 'If half of the cartoonists said yes, it would work. Unexpectedly, everybody I reached out to said yes. Absolutely everybody.', 'Some, like political cartoonist for the Observer, Chris Riddell, did five drawings. Soon enough, famous names like Monty Python’s Terry Gilliam, along with illustrators Posy Simmonds, Ralph Steadman and Sir Quentin Blake contributed.', 'Comic magazines like Viz got on board, then the Beano and The Phoenix – all of them doing a page each for the book, like London landmarks, British historical figures or iconic Mr Men characters.', 'Every day, more joined in. Then we were emailed by 38 Degrees, the charity behemoth, offering to take distribution and funding under its wing – and we were set.', 'When the Home Office decided images of Mickey Mouse were too welcoming for migrant children, the PCO Professional Cartoonists responded with a welcoming colouring book for asylum seeking children. Itâ\x80\x99s at the printersâ\x80¦ v proud to be involved #asylumseekers pic.twitter.com/2DA3a0vLuK', 'As they put it, 38 Degrees ‘campaign for fairness, defend rights, promote peace, preserve the planet and deepen democracy in the UK’. They also knew some things that we didn’t – like how to distribute books – and they worked closely with the Refugee Council.', 'We knew they were the right people for us when, during a Zoom call meeting, Media and Communications Manager Hannah Graham said the immortal words: ‘It shouldn’t be controversial to be nice to children.’', 'As I write, the first book is on its way to the printers. This will be the first print run, to be handed out to children at refugee centres across the country all with a little pack of colouring pencils. The second, larger book will be sold to the public at Christmas to raise money for refugee charities.', 'For the child, it is a simple colouring book. They might one day discover that it had a backstory of an entire country’s cartoonists rallying in support behind them. Or they might not and it will remain just a colouring book.']"
255,"['‘This is the hardest night I have ever experienced in my life.’', 'This was a recent text message from my brother in Gaza, describing an airstrike that hit a home 10 metres from our family’s house.', 'He added: ‘We can’t speak to you because we still can’t process what happened. All the windows and doors of our house have been shattered. Please keep us in your prayers.’', 'Thankfully – as far as I know – he, and the rest of my family, are still alive.\xa0', 'Our neighbour Abeer – who is a childhood friend – survived the massacre, but her entire family were all killed in this bombing. It’s absolutely devastating. It’s terrifying.', 'As the only one of my family who isn’t in Gaza, being far away from them right now while living in the UK, pregnant with my first child, makes me feel ashamed and helpless.', 'Text messages like the one from my brother leave me in a state of agony.', 'Up Next', 'I grew up in Jabalia Refugee Camp, the most densely-populated refugee camp in Gaza.', 'The camp was created following the 1948 Nakba (meaning ‘catastrophe’), the ethnic cleansing and mass killing of Palestinians, which saw the destruction of their homeland by Israeli armed forces.\xa0', 'The Nakba forced Palestinians into internal displacement. My village, Isdud, became a distant memory as my great-grandparents fled to Gaza after their hometown was depopulated, just 36 kilometres away.', 'Most of those uprooted from southern Palestine found a new home in Jabalia Refugee Camp, named after a nearby village. This camp – the largest of eight in the Gaza Strip – resides in close proximity to the ‘Erez’ border crossing.', 'It is also where my father was born, and where I spent my formative years.', 'Growing up in a refugee camp shaped me indelibly. I got my education in United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) schools in the camp. Year by year, my bond with the camp deepened – a constant reminder of my status as a refugee, all while wanting to one day return to the village of my family.', 'This experience also heightened my political consciousness and strengthened my connection to the land.', 'I experienced firsthand the terrifying, traumatising, and horrifying reality of living under brutal Israeli attacks. The enduring cruelty etched in my memory often made me feel like I might be moments away from being killed, with a constant fear of losing my family.', 'One such example was in 2008 when I was in high school in the midst of exams; sudden, powerful attacks were indiscriminately launched across the Gaza Strip. With bombardments occurring near my school – as well as my siblings’ schools too – my parents ran into the streets, filled with fear for each one of us.', 'It was the first major war launched against Hamas after the group won the majority seats of election in January 2006. It lasted for three weeks, with roughly 1,400 Palestinians – majority civilians – killed before a ceasefire was agreed.\xa0', 'Over the years, many of my friends – and my uncle too – were killed during the aggressions I had witnessed. I evacuated my home many times, as we were always under danger of random Israeli attacks.', 'The cherished childhood memories I held at many places in the camp were obliterated, as the landscape continually shifted.\xa0', 'Up Next', 'After finishing secondary school, I wanted to move to the UK for educational purposes, as I had secured a fully-funded scholarship. While I had been applying to study abroad without a particular country in mind, it was the UK that eventually awarded me the scholarship.', 'So I arrived in the UK in 2018 to pursue my education in International Human Rights Law at the University of Oxford Brookes. I went on to get a degree in Social Anthropology at LSE and am currently doing a PhD in the same field in St Andrew’s.', 'Throughout it all, the feeling of guilt about being away from my whole family has been all encompassing – especially when my home is under attack, like it is now.', 'It feels like no place is safe in Gaza.', 'In fact, most of my family members have sent me heart-wrenching farewell messages, urging me to care for my unborn baby and to pass on their stories to her.', 'Receiving these messages left me overwhelmed with sadness, anger, and helplessness. However, they also fuelled my determination to amplify my family’s voices to the world through protests, writing and storytelling.', 'My immediate family in Gaza consists of 10 members, including two children: a one-year-old baby and a three-year-old. My extended family has over 90 members – half of them are children – with the majority residing in the northern part of the Gaza Strip.', 'Jabalia Refugee Camp, where they still live, is considered one of the most dangerous areas during Israeli bombardments, constantly under threat from airstrikes and attacks.', 'So, like thousands of Palestinians at the moment, they’ve been forced to flee their homes and are terrified for their safety.', 'Before losing contact with my family on 12 October after Israeli forces cut electricity and bombarded the telecommunication infrastructure, they told me that the current situation is unlike any assault we’ve experienced since the war on Gaza in 2008.', 'Up Next', 'Israeli forces have ordered over a million Palestinians in the north of Gaza to evacuate to the south, offering stark warnings. My family was among them. They received recorded messages and even had pamphlets dropped from planes to pressure them into leaving for their ‘safety’.', 'My aunt, who works at a hospital, has stayed behind. She and her colleagues refuse to abandon their patients. She told me that moving their patients would be a death sentence for them and they are all terrified.', 'On Sunday, I learned through a tweet by a mutual friend on X that two of my childhood friends – Alaa and Nadia – along with their daughters and six other family members, were killed after they had fled their home in the Gaza city centre to the south.', 'When they tried to evacuate as ordered, they were killed in an airstrike on the house in Deir al-Balah where they sought refuge.', 'I cannot believe that this happened and the knowledge that I will not be able to meet them again is too hard to bear. How can anyone tolerate such immense pain?', 'On top of that, my pregnant sister – with health issues – is struggling without power, water or food in the northeast.', 'She urgently needs medicine and her mental health is deteriorating. Without this and proper food to feed her baby, I don’t know if her baby will survive.']"
258,"['This is the heartbreaking moment a journalist broke down after learning that his children were killed in a bombardment in Gaza.', 'Mohammad Al-Aloul, a photographer for Turkey’s Anadolu Agency, was reporting elsewhere when Israeli forces struck his neighbourhood in the Al-Maghazi refugee camp.', 'Four of his five children were among the lifeless bodies being dug up from under the piles of smoking rubble, which were once their home.', 'Among the dozens of victims were also four of Mohammad’s brothers and their children.', 'Up Next', 'He broke down while recalling to the camera the moment he learnt of their death.', '‘I was working when I heard that an Israeli airstrike targeted a residential district in Al-Maghazi and that there were martyrs and injured,’ he said.', '‘The news began to trickle slowly, telling me your daughter is wounded, your son is wounded.', '‘I got in touch with colleagues at the Al-Aqsa hospital and in the end I found out that my four children were killed.’', 'Tears began rolling down Mohammad’s cheeks as he listed the names of his sons and only daughter, and nephews killed in the attack.', 'People who had gathered at the entrance of the hospital embraced the journalist – still wearing his blue helmet and flak\xa0jacket\xa0– as he wept in their arms.', 'He was later seen carrying the remains of one of his children wrapped in a white sheet.', 'Salama Marouf, head of the Hamas government media office, said the strike on the refugee camp had killed at least 38 Palestinians and wounded 100, adding that an unknown number of people were missing. ', 'A Palestinian news agency earlier reported 51 dead.', 'Videos taken at Al-Aqsa showed multiple bodies laid out under white tarpaulins.', 'Saeed al-Nejma was asleep with his family when the blast hit his neighbourhood in Al-Maghazi.', '‘All night I and the other men were trying to pick the dead from the rubble. We got children, dismembered, torn-apart flesh,’ he said.']"
262,"['Standing on the shoreline, I cast my eye out across the sea and then back to the small, rickety vessel we were about to board.\xa0', 'The waves were turbulent at best and the countless stories I’d heard about the dangers of crossing in boats suddenly filled me with dread.', 'But we had no choice. There was no turning back.', 'We’d already travelled hundreds of miles on foot, and we still had an arduous journey ahead that would ultimately leave me and my children tired, hungry, and in my case burned and scarred in more ways than one.', 'That was 10 years ago and I can’t quite believe a whole decade has passed since I fled my home country of Syria with my children – then aged four, seven, and nine.\xa0', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'I still have nightmares about the torturous, terrifying journey. I remember every detail.', 'Up Next', 'It’s why, whenever I hear about the Government’s Rwanda plan or the migrant barge or the ‘invasion’ of the south coast, I feel equal parts angry and frustrated.', 'No-one wants to leave their homes, or to get on those ships, or to come here to face discrimination and isolation.', 'People only take such drastic action when they are fearing for their lives.', 'Back in 2013, the conflict in Syria escalated. Bombs rained down, destroying buildings, covering the streets with rubble.', 'Then, on 8 October, a bomb destroyed our village and my husband was killed.\xa0', 'Grief-stricken, I knew I had to leave with my children if we were to stand any chance of survival.', 'I had no idea what to do or where to go, but people my neighbour knew came to see me and said they could get us out. ‘You could die on the journey,’ they warned.', 'But what choice did I have? We couldn’t stay here. At least this would give us a chance of making it.', 'I agreed and was given a time and meeting place. I didn’t have enough money or possessions left but I gave them everything I had.\xa0', 'All we took were a few clothes.', 'Our 2,500-mile journey began with a small group. We navigated checkpoints, evading hostile forces. The person leading our way was paying people to look the other way so we could continue.\xa0', 'We moved mostly in darkness, every moonlit step came with fear.\xa0\xa0', 'Once we crossed the first border, we were able to rest for a few days and were given food and water. My daughter was nine years old then, and I was asked so many times by some of the men managing our journey if I wanted to sell her.', 'I didn’t know what they wanted with her, but they said it would help my other children as I’d have more money to look after them.\xa0', 'I could feel people watching us, so I kept my children close.', 'Up Next', 'Eventually, we reached the shores of Turkey and I did my best to comfort my children, but as I looked out at sea I was unable to tell them whether this was the direction towards death or safety.', 'If I was going to die, I just prayed that my children would survive.', 'The journey across this sea was a nightmare I’ll never forget. The boat was cramped and crowded with 20 people. Everyone was scared and praying to themselves.', 'I was convinced that we would sink as the boat kept swaying and water crashed in. My children were hungry, and we barely had any food. But as the boat was causing nausea, I was glad we weren’t having heavy meals.', 'We all clung to each other, even strangers, united by our shared desperation.', 'I can’t even remember how long it took, but we eventually arrived in Greece. We were tired and weak, but grateful to have made it this far. Our relief, however, was short-lived as we faced the daunting task of continuing our journey to the UK.', 'A truck journey was going to complete our route. But when we went to get in, there was only space on the vehicle for my children, so I had to hide in the area above the retracted tyre – meaning I was outside and exposed to the elements.\xa0', 'As we took off and the moving tyres heated up, they threw up hot wind, which burnt my skin. The hours felt like an eternity as I clung on for life, terrified, knowing if I let go I was dead.', 'By some miracle, we reached the UK. The journey had taken a month. We were greeted by people, who I still don’t know, that gave us shelter, food and medical help.\xa0', 'The pain from the burns on my skin started to worsen. It was excruciating; I thought I would die.\xa0', 'I was given treatment, but I still have the scars.', 'Initially we were given a refugee status visa and housed in a hotel, with £8 every week. My children were often hungry as it wasn’t enough to feed us.\xa0', 'And starting a new life in the UK was harder than I’d ever imagined. I went to restaurants and hotels looking for cleaning work, but I couldn’t find employment and encountered discrimination, which heightened my feelings of isolation and mental health struggles.\xa0\xa0', 'Eventually, a restaurant gave me some work washing up dishes. The money wasn’t great, but thankfully the restaurant gave us leftovers, to help us with food.', 'At school, my children were teased. They often came home with bruises. When I spoke to the school, they said they would speak to the other parents, but nothing happened.', 'Yet, as well as this negativity, there was compassion. Newham Community Project in London and Islamic Relief UK have been helping me rebuild my life in the UK with mentoring, financial help as well as receiving essential food packs during the winter months.', 'I’ve also enrolled in an employability and life skills training program to help me with the necessary tools to find work.\xa0']"
266,"['Up Next', 'Newborns burnt alive, children beheaded and bodies of civilians scattered in tents housing displaced Palestinians – this is the aftermath of Israel’s war on Gaza.', 'At least 35 people were killed in ‘barbaric’ strikes on a refugee camp in the city of Rafah, according to the Palestinian health ministry.', 'Makeshift shelters were supposed to be safe havens for civilians, yet they became targets of ‘inhumane’ violence over the weekend.', 'Footage being shared by journalists on the ground show bodies covered in ashes on the ground, women and children ‘dismembered and burnt alive’.']"
269,"['Pupils should be taught maths until the age of 18, Rishi Sunak is expected to announce tomorrow.', 'The Prime Minister will use his first speech of 2023 to unveil a new plan to boost numeracy skills in England.', 'Currently, the UK remains one of the only countries in the world that does not require children to study some form of maths up to the age of 18.', 'Researchers have even explored ‘maths anxiety’, an issue prevalent among British children.', 'Tomorrow afternoon, Mr Sunak is expected to vow that with the ‘right plan’, he sees ‘no reason’ why ‘we cannot rival the best education systems in the world’.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'He will say: ‘This is personal for me. Every opportunity I’ve had in life began with the education I was so fortunate to receive.', '‘And it’s the single most important reason why I came into politics: to give every child the highest possible standard of education.', '‘With the right plan – the right commitment to excellence – I see no reason why we cannot rival the best education systems in the world’.', 'Mr Sunak is expected to commit to starting the work of introducing maths to 18 in this Parliament and finishing it in the next.', 'He will put emphasis on the importance of numeracy, stressing that jobs will require more ‘analytical skills’ in the future.', 'The Tory leader is expected to say: ‘Right now, just half of all 16 to 19-year-olds study any maths at all. Yet in a world where data is everywhere and statistics underpin every job, our children’s jobs will require more analytical skills than ever before.', '‘And letting our children out into the world without those skills, is letting our children down’.', 'According to PA, the Government does not apparently envisage making maths A-level compulsory for all 16-year-olds – and further detail will be set out in due course.', 'Ministers are instead exploring existing routes, such as the Core Maths qualifications and T-Levels, as well as more innovative options.', 'Mr Sunak’s announcement on Wednesday will come ahead of Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer’s first speech of 2023, expected on Thursday.', 'A Labour source said: ‘In their desperation to ensure Sunak’s speech doesn’t happen after Keir’s, No 10 have revealed they have nothing to offer the country except… double maths.', '‘As the health service falls to pieces after 12 years of Tory rule, criminals terrorise the streets, and working people worry how their wages will last the month, the country is entitled to ask: is this it?’', 'On the ‘maths to 18’ plan, shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson touched upon the number of new maths teachers in the country.', 'She claimed existing staff were ‘leaving in their droves’.', 'She added: ‘Now, maths attainment gaps are widening yet Rishi Sunak as chancellor said the country had “maxed out” on Covid recovery support for our children.', '‘Labour will end tax breaks for private schools and use the money to invest in 6,500 more teachers, including maths teachers, to drive up standards in this country.’', 'Meanwhile, Liberal Democrat education spokesperson Munira Wilson said the announcement was an ‘admission of failure from the Prime Minister on behalf of a Conservative government that has neglected our children’s education so badly’.', 'She added: ‘If Rishi Sunak is serious about reversing the Conservatives’ awful record on numeracy, he should start by cancelling the planned cuts to early years education and come forward with a real plan to recruit and retain the teachers we need.’']"
270,"['Up Next', 'A Holocaust survivor has demanded Suella Braverman apologise for using ‘frightening’ anti-migrant rhetoric.', 'The Home Secretary has faced longstanding criticism over her rhetoric when discussing refugees, such as referring to them as an ‘invasion’.', 'Braverman said last year said it was her ‘dream’ to see refugees offshored to Rwanda as part of her predecessor Priti Patel’s controversial plans. ', 'But for Joan Salter, who won an MBE for her work on Holocaust education, the MP for Fareham’s words are akin to the language the Nazis used to justify killing her family and six million Jews.', 'Speaking at a briefing for local Tory members in Braverman’s constituency yesterday, the 83-year-old had asked Braverman: ‘I am a child survivor of the Holocaust. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘In 1943, I was forced to flee my birthplace in Belgium and went across war-torn Europe and dangerous seas until I finally was able to come to the UK in 1947.', '‘Now when I hear you saying words against refugees – like “swarms” and “invasions” – I am reminded of the language used to dehumanise and justify the murder of my family and millions of others.', '‘Why do you find the need to use that kind of language?’', 'Inside the Holy Trinity Church, Braverman thanked Salter for her question and said: ‘I won’t apologise for the language that I’ve used to demonstrate the scale of the problem.', '‘I see my job as being honest with the British people and honest for the British people.', '‘I’m not going to shy away from difficult truths nor am I going to conceal what is the reality that we are all watching. I see myself as your voice in government.’']"
272,"['Nicola Bulley’s close friend has said ‘the unknown is unbearable’ two weeks after she vanished.', 'Ms Bulley’s family today gathered at St Michael’s Church on the banks of the River Wyre in Lancashire, just a few hundred yards from where she vanished two weeks ago. ', 'A photo of Ms Bulley smiling with her partner Paul Ansell was displayed at the altar.', 'Heather Gibbons, a family friend who attended the vigil, said: ‘It’s an agonising wait, it’s almost a hell above hell, because the unknown is unbearable.’', 'She described how locals opened the church doors at 10am to give people the ‘chance to come… collect their thoughts [and]… be together’. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘It’s not a vigil in that we’ve lost hope, it’s almost trying to create that moment of hope for everybody to keep supporting one another’, said she added.', 'Fraught friends gathered for yet another roadside appeal on holding signs pleading ‘to bring Nikki home’. ', 'They are urging people to come forward with more information, while some want police to search a nearby ‘abandoned house’.', 'Ms Bulley, 45, went missing on January 27 after dropping her two children – aged six and nine – off at school and taking their spaniel for a walk. ', 'She was last seen wearing a black coat, black jeans and ankle-length green wellies, with her hair tied up in a ponytail. ', 'A witness has said they saw a ‘shabby’ red van close to where the mother of two disappeared.', 'Lancashire Police have said their current working\xa0hypothesis\xa0is that Ms Bulley fell into the river.', 'But Ms Gibbons said the lack of clarity about the 45-year-old’s disappearance was inflicting a huge toll on her loved ones. ', '‘The family are on the worst rollercoaster of their lives, they are still holding on to hope, that there’s a chance we will get Nikki home safe,’ she said. ', '‘They have the same thinking that nothing is making sense. They are just desperate for some evidence that will pinpoint exactly what has happened.’', 'On the morning of her disappearance, Ms Bulley followed her usual routine, dropping her two daughters off at school and taking springer spaniel Willow for a walk along the river bank.', 'Her phone – still connected to a call for her job as a mortgage advisor – was found on a bench overlooking the river Wyre, along with the dog who was darting between the two. ', 'There has been no trace of her since, despite an extensive search of the river and surrounding countryside by officers. ', 'They have since switched from scouring St Michael’s to around 10 miles downstream where the river meets the sea at Morecambe Bay. ', 'Police boats have been sighted travelling up and down local waterways. ', 'Lancashire police believe that Ms Bulley fell into the water and are discounting something malicious, though it still has an ‘open mind’ about what happened. ', 'Members of the public are being asked to come forward with any information that could help the enquiry. ', '‘[Police] are encouraging everyone to keep open-minded, the words were, they have not got their blinkers on,’ added Ms Gibbons. ', '‘We are hopeful, we’re still holding on to hope.’', 'Stay on top of the headlines with daily email updates.']"
276,"['People smugglers threw young children into the sea to lighten an overcrowded boat that sank off the Italian coast, survivors claim.', 'At least 65 people have been confirmed dead after a boat carrying around 170 people sank only metres away from Italy’s Calabrian coast Sunday morning.', 'Fourteen of the victims were children. Around 80 people survived the shipwreck, according to Italy’s Coast Guard.', 'The wooden boat, which sailed from Turkey, broke apart against rocky reefs near the shore of Steccato di Cutro, a tiny village on the tip of Italy’s boot.', 'One survivor told the Italian newspaper La Stampa: ‘The traffickers started to throw kids out, they grabbed them by the arm and threw them in the sea.’', 'Another said the smugglers shoved at least 20 people overboard as the craft sank.', 'Sunday’s tragedy has touched off a wave of sorrow, grief and frustrated calls to action for politicians in Italy and beyond to do more to protect migrants. ', 'Crotone mayor Vincenzo Voce arrived with flowers to a makeshift funeral home in a sports hall yesterday where countless coffins were laid out.', 'Desperate relatives and friends are in Cotone in the hope of finding their loved ones, many from Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran and Pakistan.', '‘They are still dead without a name,’ Voce added. ', 'Three suspected smugglers – a Turkish national and two Pakistani nationals – have been identified, prosecutors say. A fourth suspect is believed to have escaped or died in the wreck.', 'The group charged each person €8,000, or about £7,000, to make the ‘voyage of death’, Italy’s border police said.', 'Italy’s far-right government has made immigration a top issue, with much of Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni’s election campaign fuelled by anti-migrant rhetoric.', 'She, among other things, has vowed to tighten the asylum process, increase repatriations and curb charity ships that rescue migrants crossing the Mediterranean.', 'Under Meloni, NGO-led search and rescue boats that have saved migrants on board cannot remain at sea – they must dock at ports manned by the authorities.', 'Her office would then say on Sunday: ‘…Meloni expresses her deep sorrow for the many human lives cut short by human traffickers.’', 'For some refugee rights groups, the wreck has revived memories of a migrant boat crash in 2013, when a tinny trawler caught fire and capsized near Sicily.', 'Hundreds of men, women and children died, while a search-and-rescue operation that lasted for years soon petered.', 'José Manuel Barroso, then president of the European Commission,\xa0said at the time: ‘We will do anything we can, with the means that we have, to change the situation.’', 'But activists say that Sunday’s disaster – that comes as nations such as Greece expel thousands of migrants and the UK looks to offshore some to Rwanda – shows that not much has changed in the years since.', 'Calabria has long been one of the most manageable places for asylum seekers to travel to from Turkey. ', 'Around 15% of the 105,000 migrants arriving in Italy last year landed there, according to the International Organization for Migration, a UN agency.', 'But the central Mediterranean below is among the most deadly routes.', 'The International Organization for Migration has registered more than 17,000 deaths and disappearances in the central Mediterranean since 2014.', 'In 2022, 1,417 people died during the crossing. While this month alone, the group says, 158 deaths have been recorded.', 'The organisation tweeted: ‘This is not an emergency in numbers. ', '‘It is humanitarian.’']"
277,"['Up Next', 'Two children are among the nearly 20 people dead after a fire broke out in an Indonesian oil depot.', 'Lighting is believed to have struck the Plumpang fuel storage station in Jakarta yesterday evening.', 'The fast-moving blaze ripped through the bustling Tanah Merah neighbourhood, killing 18 people including two children and injuring around 60.', 'Fire officials said the blaze erupted at 8pm local time and took two hours to be doused. ', 'Satriadi Gunawan, who heads Jakarta’s fire and rescue department, added: ‘The fire caused several explosions and quickly spread to residential houses.’', 'Social media footage showed explosions piercing the air shortly after the fire started.', 'Sri Haryati, a mother of three, said the fire began to spread to the residential area nearby 20 minutes after locals smelt petrol fumes followed by a huge explosion. ', '‘I was crying and immediately grabbed our valuable documents and ran with my husband and children,’ she said.', 'Leaving her home, Haryati said she could hear the sounds of smaller blasts while orange flames spilt out of the depot.', 'As sparks lit up the nighttime sky, footage from broadcasters shows panicked people running for their lives as 1,300 people had to be evacuated. ', 'Jakarta’s National Disaster Mitigation Agency (BNPB)\xa0said some residents had been evacuated into nearby mosques.', 'National Police chief Listyo Sigit Prabowo said others took shelter in 10 government offices, a Red Cross Command post and a sports stadium. ', 'In the morning light, residential buildings were charred, gutted or had collapsed altogether.', 'Rescuers are now scouring the wrecked neighbourhood for 16 people who were reported missing or separated from their loved ones. ', 'Around 42 people are receiving treatment across five hospitals, some in critical conditions. ', 'The government will pay for all injured people’s medical treatment, Jakarta’s acting governor Heru Budi Hartono told reporters.', 'The depot, operated by the state-run oil and gas company Pertamina, supplies a quarter of Indonesia’s fuel.', 'Eko Kristiawan, Pertamina’s area manager for the western part of Java, said a preliminary investigation has found the fire erupted from a ruptured pipeline. ', 'Investigators suspect this was due to a lightning strike during the heavy rains, with witnesses hearing thunder rumbling twice before the fire ignited. ', '‘We will carry out a thorough evaluation and reflection internally to prevent similar incidents from happening again,’ Kristiawan added.', 'A police investigation has been launched. ']"
278,"['A Ukrainian schoolgirl who died after being found unconscious on a beach in Devon was a refugee staying with a family, it has emerged.', 'Classmates paid tribute to the\xa0‘kind and caring’ 14-year-old who died at the weekend.', 'Police were called to reports that the teenager – who is believed to have been staying with a local family alongside her mother – had gone missing on Saturday evening.', 'Searches by a police helicopter and coastguard tracked her to a beach in Dawlish, Devon.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'She was then airlifted to the Royal Devon and Exeter hospital, where she later died.', 'The girl was a Year 9 pupil at Dawlish College where grieving friends are understood to be receiving specialist support.', 'She has been described as a ‘kind and caring person’ by fellow school pupils.', 'One student told The Sun: ‘She went to my school. It’s so sad, she was a lovely girl.’', 'Another pupil added: ‘We just got the news at the school I go to because she was a student here and we all think it’s horrible.', '‘She was such a kind and caring person and it is so sad to see her go.’', 'People living in the area have been left shocked by the teenager’s death.', 'Mayor of Dawlish Lisa Mayne said: ‘It’s absolutely devastating for people', '‘You can’t put it properly into words, how it is going to affect our Ukrainian community here.', '‘They have come here to find safety and now they have to come to terms with a terrible tragedy like this.', '‘It’s dreadfully sad. Her family needs time to grieve and find out what happened.', 'Formal identification is due to take place but her next of kin have been informed.', 'Detective Inspector Becky Davies said: ‘We were called on the evening of Saturday 4 March with reports of a 14-year-old girl missing from the Dawlish area.', '‘Localised searches took place with support from the police helicopter and coastguard and an unconscious person was found on Dawlish Beach.', '‘She was subsequently airlifted to the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital where she later sadly died. Formal identification has taken place and next of kin have been informed.’', 'DI Davies added: ‘The deceased girl was a Ukrainian national who was living in the Dawlish area; contact has been made with the Ukrainian Embassy and The Home Office are also aware of this incident.', '‘This death is currently being treated as unexplained and enquiries continue as to the circumstances surrounding this death.', '‘Our thoughts are with the family and friends of the teenage girl at this tragic time.’']"
280,"['Up Next', 'Hundreds of people including MPs protested outside the House of Commons against the ‘cruel’ and ‘inhumane’ Illegal Migration Bill yesterday.', 'The rally, organised by Stand Up To Racism, a refugee charity and a top trade union, saw chants of ‘refugees are welcome’ while MPs debated the bill inside. ']"
282,"['Madeleine McCann’s parents have spoken out after a woman from Poland claimed to be their missing daughter.', 'Julia Wandell, 21, posted online and tried to convince social media users she was the missing girl.', 'Appearing on US talk show Dr Phil, Wandell pleaded her case to millions of viewers.', 'However, DNA test results which were released yesterday confirmed Wandell was from Poland.', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'In response to the DNA results, a spokesperson for Kate and Gerry McCann said: ‘There isn’t anything to report at this time.', '‘If and when there is, it will come from The Metropolitan Police.’', 'Wendell was convinced she is the missing child who vanished from an apartment in Praia da Luz, Portugal in May 2007.', 'She took to Instagram and Tiktok saying she could be the missing Brit due to similarities in their age and appearance.', 'Medical records, accessed by private investigator Dr Fia Johansson, were brought to light ahead of the segment.', 'She said that Julie had reportedly suffered a skull fracture as a child which had erased part of her memory.', 'The brain injury – which happened when she was eight – had initially left her unable to speak or walk.', 'Julia told Dr Phil: ‘I have some single memories since eight, nine years old.', '‘And before eight, I have only this one memory with beach and water, like sea or ocean, and there were turtles and children trying to catch the turtles and take them in their hands.', '‘And I remembered light-coloured buildings, like white or very light colours, sunlight on this building.’', 'Dr Johansson, who is also a medium, has been granted power of attorney over Julia, the show was told.', 'She has dispelled any possibility Julia could be missing Maddie.', 'She told RadarOnline.com: ‘She is absolutely 100 percent from Poland. She is a small percentage of Lithuanian and Russian but the test results show she is Polish.', '‘We learned a few things, one being that Julia’s mum is in fact now believed to be her mum, so she is not Madeleine McCann.’', 'Dr Johansson later wrote on Instagram: ‘We finally know the reality.', '‘Although it is impossible to tell for sure without the parents DNA results on either side, the test results speak to the origins of Julia’s root.’', 'She explained that the results showed the 21-year-old is from Poland, with some Lithuanian and Romanian heritage.', 'Dr Johansson added: ‘The DNA test results did not show any connection to British or even German roots.', '‘This story is much more complicated than a simple girl from a small town in Poland making a claim to get attention.', '‘She truly believed what she was saying, and with so many questions about her childhood it is easy to understand where she was coming from.', '‘What is amazing is parent’s refusal to resolve this nagging question for Julia.', '‘A simple DNA test by parents would have resolved many questions for Julia.', '‘In any case, upon the revelation, she decided to be back with her dad. I personally wish her well.’', 'DNA testing into who Julia’s father is is still ongoing.', 'Relatives of Maddie previously insisted ‘it’s obvious Julia isn’t Maddie’ and blamed mental health issues and a lust for attention after gaining more than a million followers under the handle @iammadeleinemccann.', 'Detectives have similarly ‘ruled out’ her account, with Pawel Noga, a spokesman for the police in Wroclaw telling Gazeta the investigation ‘contradicts the version presented by this woman’.', 'Never miss the biggest stories with breaking news alerts in your inbox.']"
283,"['Thousands of mourners gathered for the funeral of British-Israeli mother Lucy Dee killed alongside her two daughters in the West Bank.', 'Maia and Rina Dee, 20 and 15, were killed last Friday as they drove through the Jordan Valley, the easternmost part of the West Bank.\xa0The shooter fled the scene.', 'Lucy, 45, their mother who was in the car with them, sustained critical injuries and was left in a coma. She died three days later.', 'Ein Kerem Hospital in Jerusalem said: ‘Unfortunately, despite intense and relentless efforts, due to the critical nature of her injuries, the team had to determine her death today.’', 'The family’s father, Rabbi Lee Dee, was driving behind them in another vehicle during the incident and was left unscathed. ', 'Lucy’s other children, Karen and Tali, broke down as their mother was buried during an emotional funeral in Kfar Etzion, an Israeli settlement in the West Bank.', 'Hundreds packed the service while, outside, thousands lined the streets holding the Israeli national flag.', 'In a eulogy, Rabbi Dee said: ‘Lucy, you were a great companion to everyone, but for me, you were my best friend – we were each others.', '‘We built a new life for ourselves in the promised land. You would frequently say you couldn’t imagine living anywhere else. ', '‘Nor could I – even now, especially now.’', 'The family lived in Efrat, another Israeli settlement in the West Bank, after moving from London in 2014.', '‘You were airlifted from a murder scene. I can’t imagine the pain, physical and mental, if you were conscious in any way for that journey,’ Leo added.', 'Rabbi Dee, once a senior rabbi at Radlett United Synagogue in Hertfordshire, said will be forever ‘haunted’ after missing a phone call from Maia.', '‘The feeling she called me during the attack and I wasn’t able to speak to her will come back and haunt me for a while,’ he said.', 'The shooting has touched off an outpouring of grief at a time of deepening violence and upheaval in the West Bank, exacerbated by attacks from Gaza, Lebanon and Syria.', 'Tensions have spiralled into bloodshed as clashes, shootings and car rammings mar the rare crossover of Ramadan, Passover and Easter.', 'On Monday, Israeli forces shot and killed two Palestinian people – including a 15-year-old boy – in the Aqbat Jaber refugee camp near the West Bank city of Jericho, Palestinian officials said.', 'Mohammad Fayez Balhan was ‘killed by live occupation bullets in the head, chest and abdomen,’ the country’s health ministry said.', 'Only hours after Maia, Rine and Lee were shot, an Italian tourist was killed when a car rammed into him as he and British and Italian tourists walked along a Tel Aviv promenade. ', 'Israeli police attacked hundreds of worshipers at the Al-Aqsa Mosque, the third-holiest site in Islam, in occupied\xa0east Jerusalem last Wednesday.', 'Palestinian worshippers were met with a volley of rubber-tipped bullets, stun grenades and tear gas, witnesses said.', 'The conflict this year alone has so far claimed the lives of at least 94 Palestinians – including 19 minors – 19 Israelis, one Ukrainian and one Italian,\xa0according to a tally by AFP.']"
284,"['On February 24, 2022, people in Moldova were woken up by the sound of the first air strikes on the neighbouring port city of Odesa.', 'Ukrainians – some still in pyjamas and slippers, only clutching personal documents- amassed at the border crossing within hours, where they were met by long lines of cars to drive them to the capital Chisinau.', 'Sandwiched between Romania and Ukraine, the tiny eastern European country has lived under the constant fear of a Russian attack on its soil since the beginning of the war, and has suffered the consequences of siding with the West.', 'This has not stopped the aspiring European Union member to offer refuge to the hundreds of thousands of people fleeing Vladimir Putin’s missiles in the last year.', 'Up Next', '\n\t\t\t\t\t\t\t\tUkrainians who fled across the border into Moldova are being supported by NGO Hope4.\t\t\t\t\t\t\t', 'Though most Ukrainians end up relocating to ‘richer’ countries like France, Spain, Germany or Italy, others want to remain close to their country.\xa0']"
285,"['The death toll linked to a doomsday cult in Kenya has hit 201 after police exhumed 22 more bodies, most of them bearing signs of starvation, according to the coast regional commissioner.', 'The bodies are believed to be those of followers of a pastor based in coastal Kenya, Paul Mackenzie.', 'He is alleged to have ordered congregants to starve to death in order to meet Jesus.', 'More than 600 people are still missing.', 'Mackenzie, who was arrested last month, remains in custody.', 'Police plan to charge him with terrorism-related offences.', 'Following a court appearance, his lawyer George Kariuki told CNN that his client ‘eats and drinks’, adding: ‘He is healthy. I have met him personally.', '‘There have been rumours that he has refused to eat, and that is not true.’', 'Hundreds of bodies have been dug up from dozens of mass graves spread across his 800-acre property, located in the coastal county of Kilifi.', 'Mackenzie insists that he closed his church in 2019 and moved to his property in a forested area to farm.', 'Post-mortem examinations conducted on more than 100 bodies last week showed the victims died of starvation, strangulation, suffocation and injuries sustained from blunt objects.', 'Up Next', 'Local media outlets have been reporting cases of missing internal body organs, quoting investigators in the case.', 'Mackenzie, his wife and 16 other suspects will appear in court at the end of the month.', 'Coast regional commissioner Rhoda Onyancha on Saturday said the total number of those arrested stood at 26, with 610 people reported as missing by their families.', 'It is unclear how many survivors have been rescued so far from the search and rescue operations on Mackenzie’s vast property.', 'Some of them were too weak to walk when they were found.', 'Cults are common in Kenya, which has a religious society.', 'Police across the country have been questioning other religious leaders whose teachings are believed to be misleading and contrary to basic human rights.', 'President William Ruto last week formed a commission of inquiry to investigate how hundreds of people were lured to their deaths at the coast and recommend action on institutions that failed to act.', 'Mr Ruto said his government had ordered a crackdown on ‘people who want to use religion to advance weird, unacceptable ideology’.', 'Mackenzie had in the past been charged with the deaths of children in his church in a case that is ongoing in court.', 'Residents nearby had raised the alarm after his followers moved to the forested area.']"
286,"['Up Next', 'Home Secretary Suella Braverman has been accused of ‘going to ground’ after it was confirmed she will not publicly address new figures showing a record rise in net migration – prompting Labour to ask ‘What is the point of her?’']"
288,"['Men who lost loved ones after a fishing trawler carrying migrants capsized in Greece say they were ‘shocked’ by the money spent on the Titan search.', 'Anees Majeed, a law student from Pakistan-administrated Kashmir, says he has all but given up hope that his cousins will ever be found or brought home.', 'His cousins were among 730 people who, with no other options, fled from poverty and violence in search of a new life – and a brutal journey in between.', 'More than 500 people were thought to have died after the boat from Libya tipped over off the south coast of Greece on June 14.', 'Only a week later, a submersible offering $250,000 trips to see the wreckage of the ill-fated Titanic vanished, igniting a frantic, days-long search involving multiple countries and private entities.', 'The contrast was too much for Majeed. He told The Guardian: ‘We were shocked to know that millions would be spent on this rescue mission.', '‘They used all resources, and so much news came out from this search. But they did not bother to search for hundreds of Pakistanis and other people who were on the Greek boat.', '‘This is a double standard … they could have saved many of the people if they wanted, or at least they could have recovered the bodies.’', 'No blame was pointed to the five Titan passengers who included Stockton Rush, the founder of the vessel’s operator OceanGate Expeditions; British billionaire businessman Hamish Harding; millionaire Shahzada Dawood and his son, Sulemam; and\xa0French maritime expert Paul-Henri Nargeolet.', 'None were involved in how the boat carrying the family of Kashmir-based shopkeeper Abdul Karim, 36, capsized and the reaction from the authorities and the press that followed.', 'The boat had been in distress for a day – during which there was ample time for the ship to be rescued – before a rescue operation was initiated when the boat began to sink.', 'The Hellenic Coast Guard,\xa0Greece’s national coastguard, has been criticised by campaigners for failing to help\xa0the passengers sooner.', 'Of the as many 750 people thought to have been travelling on the fishing boat, barely 100 survived, according to some counts. ', 'Hundreds of passengers were from Pakistan, others from Egypt, Syria, Afghanistan and Palestine trying to make it across the Mediterranean\xa0to Europe. Between 50 and 100 children were estimated to be on board the ship, the BBC reported. ', 'The Mediterranean\xa0is among the most dangerous migrant crossings in the world, the director of the UN’s International Organization of Migration (IOM), António Vitorino, said in April.', '‘With more than 20,000 deaths recorded on this route since 2014,’ he said,\xa0‘I fear that these deaths have been normalized.’', 'All five people aboard the Titan have also died.', '‘It’s sad that a submarine carrying five rich people was given much more consideration, coverage and importance than the migrants on the Greek boat,’ Karimsaid. ', '‘Millions of dollars must have been spent to rescue the rich but for the poor, there’s no such opportunity.’', 'Human rights campaigners have described the difference in rescue operations and media coverage between the dangerously overcrowded boat with migrants onboard and the Titan.', 'Some see the difference as exposing the harsh reality between those of different classes.', 'But this was based on expenditure that has been publically disclosed, so the figure is likely far higher.', 'The figure also doesn’t count what was spent by the Canadian government and private companies, with one expert telling The New York Times it is in the ‘millions’.']"
289,"['At least 17 people including three children have been killed by suspected toxic gas leaking from a cylinder at an illegal gold mining operation in South Africa.', 'Rescuers fear up to 24 people could be dead, with searches being carried out over a 100-metre radius of the site at Boksburg, east of Johannesburg.', 'The youngest victims are believed to be aged 1, 6 and 15, while police, ambulance and the fire brigade search for more victims.', 'Illegal gold miners – known as zama-zamas – had been using nitrate oxide in a large shack where they worked and slept.', 'This was to separate gold they extracted from dirt and earth.', 'Spokesman William Ntladi said: ‘The search and recovery team is searching the shacks in and around the area where the cylinder leaked to verify if there are other casualties nearby.', '‘The bodies we have found had already died but others could have tried to escape and collapsed elsewhere so we won’t have a final toll until the whole scene has been fully examined.', '‘We do not know when the gas started leaking but when the emergency teams arrived at around 8pm on Wednesday night the cylinder which had leaked into the shack was already empty.’', 'Another Ekurhuleni EMS officer spoke to TimesLIVE and said women and children were among the dead, with their bodies scattered in different parts of the settlement near the leak.', 'He said: ‘The zama-zama guys live amongst the community and clean and refine their gold here using gas cylinders but sadly this time the gas leaked resulting in sleeping people suffocating.', '‘Others who were awake died as they tried to run but the fumes were too much to bear. The scene is horrific with bodies lying everywhere waiting for the forensic teams to arrive,’ he said.', 'A township elder, fearful of the zama-zamas added: ‘There is nothing we can do about them. They are too powerful and too dangerous. They live amongst us in the Angelo area.', '‘What has happened has destroyed Angelo – there are bodies wherever you look.’', 'A South African Police source said: ‘They are a law onto themselves and are always heavily armed and wherever they set up camp rape and murder and violence follows behind them.’', 'It is not the first time an incident like this has happened, after 41 suspected miners were killed when a lorry carrying liquefied petroleum gas exploded under a bridge at the same township on Christmas Eve.', 'And at least 31 illegal miners were killed in a gas explosion while underground illegally excavating a disused mine in Welkom, in the Free State Province in June.']"
290,"['‘All they keep saying is that they want to live, they don’t want to die. They are really scared for their lives.’', 'These are the words that repeat in Sami Ahmad’s mind every day, as he grows more and more desperate to get his mum and two sisters out of the war raging through Sudan.', '‘They don’t have anything – they don’t have anybody to feed them or look after them. It’s really, really bad.’', 'The 40-year-old dad managed to bring his wife and four children to the UK in January last year in a bid to escape persecution as black Africans, from Sudanese groups which consider themselves Arab.', 'He is waiting to hear a decision on whether his family will be granted refugee status, but now he is faced with intense worries about the loved ones he has left behind.', 'Since fresh fighting broke out in the north African country on April 15, it has forced more than 2.8 million people to flee their homes, killed at least 1,133 others and injured 11,796.', 'This is according to the most recent figures available – published just over a week ago by the Sudanese Federal Ministry of Health.', 'There are also devastating reports of sexual violence running rampant, with soldiers accused of using rape as a weapon of war and specifically targetting internal refugees, the Strategic Initiative for Women in the Horn of Africa says.', 'None of this is easy for Sami to think about.']"
293,"['A man who posed as a scout for young models to lure in his young victims has been jailed after admitting to a string of sex offences.', 'David Harmes, formerly of Wharton Gardens, pleaded guilty to 88 sex offences involving 39 victims in the UK, and six in the USA.', 'Over a six-month period (July 2019 – February 2020), David Harmes targeted youngsters aged between six and 15 – all were female except one, who was male.', 'Harmes appeared at Chester Crown Court on 24 July to face the charges. He pleaded guilty and has been remanded in custody to be sentenced on September 5.', 'Police said Harmes used a number of guises to draw his victims in, including a model scout for a major clothing outlet called Jess, or a boy called Jaden or Alex, or Jadenthelad to name but a few.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'He would draw them in after spotting them on YouTube or Instagram.', 'All this deceit and manipulation was to ‘fuel his twisted obsession’ it was heard.', 'Harmes had just served his sentence for similar crimes when he was released on February 14, 2019 but it wasn’t until July that he began offending again.', 'Investigating officer DS Mark Naylor from the Constabulary’s Major Crime Directorate said: ‘Having received intelligence that Harmes was offending, his laptops, phones and other digital devices were seized in a warrant at his address, and Harmes was returned to prison for breaching his Sex Offender Notification Order on 8 February 2020 preventing him from committing further crimes.’', 'Detectives pieced together his offending and linked him by his distinctive bedding in the images they found on his devices as well as footage of him accidentally opening his laptop and filming his face, for a few seconds.', 'The pieces were coming together to put a case to CPS to authorise charges.', 'Detectives liaised with the USA authorities to secure evidence for the victims in America and in May this year Harmes was served with a summons in HMP Risley to appear in court to face the charges.', 'They in included possessing, making and distributing indecent images, inciting a child to engage in sexual activity, sexual communication with a child and engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child.', 'Detective Superintendent Simon Draco said:’This has been a complex and meticulous investigation with international based victims that has resulted in the conviction of Harmes and will bring justice for the victims of his offending.', '‘Cheshire Constabulary has an investigation team dedicated to targeting those who sexually abuse and offend against children online and teams across the force work with partners to educate children, parents and carers about online predators, to safeguard children from potential harm.', '‘We’re really keen to drum home the message that parents and carers need to know what their children are doing online in order to protect them from predators like Harmes.', 'We all know that we need to teach children not to speak to strangers in the street, but we need to drive home that very same message for the online world too, to prevent people like Harmes taking advantage.’']"
294,"['Every time Khadija Qasim got displaced in Syria, she carried one thing with her – a sewing machine.', 'The 53-year-old was making a living working as a seamstress when two deadly earthquakes rocked her country and neighbouring Turkey.', 'More than 50,000 people were killed, thousands of others missing and millions left homeless after the disaster turned entire cities into nothing but rubble.', 'At the time, Khadija had fled the eastern city of Deir\xa0ez-Zor, seeking refuge with her children in the town of Jindires, less than 10 miles from the Turkish border.', 'Her eldest was killed in the earthquake, while her second eldest son Mohamad had to have his arm and leg removed.', 'Their mum also had to undergo surgeries and had her foot amputated after being crushed.', 'Six months on from the disaster on February 6, Khadija sits on the ground in a tent in the camp where her family now lives.', 'She does not have a wheelchair to move around freely and struggles to assist Mohamad, who cannot walk.', '‘Once we left the hospital, we moved straight into the camp. Camp life is very difficult for us as people living with disabilities,’ Khadija said.', 'Though devastating, Khadija and Mohamad’s story – worsened by the ongoing civil war in their country – is all too common.', 'Rescue teams from all over the world poured into Turkey immediately after the earthquake, but in Syria people were left to fend for themselves. ', 'While those who survived are considered fortunate, thousands of the seriously injured still await prosthetics and assistive devices, such as wheelchairs, and physical therapy.', 'Relief International and its partner on the ground, the\xa0National Syrian Project for Prosthetic Limbs\xa0(NSPPL), have since scaled up operations to support those with disabilities.', 'Ali Al-Ahmad, who is from the city of Tadmor in Syria, is one of the teenagers the organisations are helping at their centre in Hatay.', 'His family was living in Antakya when the earthquake struck, killing his mum, dad and four of his five siblings.', 'The 14-year-old, who was stuck under the rubble for three days, said: ‘I realised one of my nieces was alive because I could hear her crying. ', '‘She was only a five-month-old baby and her face was smashed and deformed.', '‘One of my brothers was still alive with me too. Rescuers cut off his hand to free him, but he died as he entered the emergency room.\xa0', '‘My older brother\xa0was not\xa0at home\xa0when the earthquake struck.\xa0We are the only surviving members of our family. We\xa0now\xa0live together in a rented home in the town of\xa0Reyhanli.’', 'Ali was in intensive care for 100 days and underwent 25 surgeries. His entire leg including his thigh had to be amputated after being crushed. ', 'He is currently doing physical therapy in preparation for getting a prosthetic leg.', 'Six months on, Ali says he still feels like his leg is there and sometimes even has electrical shocks in it.\xa0', '‘My life is completely different. My father, my mother, my sister, my brothers – all of them died,’ he said.', '‘I lost my whole family. I still cannot leave the house on my own. I cannot walk far before I feel tired. Once I have a prosthetic\xa0limb\xa0I hope to be more independent.’', 'The extent of the physical and mental trauma survivors have experienced since the earthquakes is enormous. ', 'Some have been pulled from the rubble after days in the cold and darkness only to discover family members have died or are missing.', 'Nadim Hassan’s wife and three of their four children were killed in the disaster. Only him and eight-year-old son Habib survived.', 'Originally from near Aleppo, in Syria, the 36-year-old lived in Hatay with his family where he worked as a concrete carpenter and owned a construction business with 50 employees.', '‘Our life was so beautiful back then; nothing was lacking. We\xa0had\xa0everything we wished\xa0to have,’ he said.', '‘The earthquake was impossible to bear. My family lived on the ground level of a building with many floors.', '‘I threw myself on my children but the whole structure collapsed with a blink of an eye. My daughter told me her feet were aching and painful.\xa0', '‘I told her to keep her faith and say a verse from the Quran. She began speaking but then passed away.\xa0After that, I heard the voice of my little boy but it then also disappeared.\xa0\xa0', '‘These were unimaginably hard moments for me. My son Habib was not stuck like the rest of the family. ', '‘He found a tunnel and managed to get out to find help. I was trapped under the rubble for four days before being rescued.’', 'Nadim spent 45 days in hospital before returning to Hatay. At first, doctors tried to save his leg, doing plastic surgery and installing metal plates, but a huge number of patients needed treatment and the hospitals were overcrowded.', 'His leg never responded as the arteries, veins and nerves were dead, and they had no choice but to amputate it.', 'After returning from the hospital, Nadim and Habib slept in gardens until he was told about the Relief International centre. ', '‘They provided me with\xa0mental health support sessions\xa0and gave me a physical therapy plan to prepare for my prosthetic leg,’ the dad added.', '‘In the\xa0meantime\xa0I am waiting for a wheelchair as walking with crutches is very difficult.\xa0Once I have my prosthetic, I hope to go back to work so I can provide for Habib. ', '‘This is his future and as a dad, I need to do my best to secure the best life for him.’', 'Relief International’s disability support centres are based in Hatay, Kilis, Mersin, Adana and Istanbul. ', 'They also have mobile teams in these locations as well as Kahramanmaras, Gaziantep, Adıyaman and Malatya to help people in areas most impacted by the earthquakes.\xa0']"
296,"['Two 6.3 magnitude earthquakes that tore through western Afghanistan on Saturday have killed at least 2,000 people, the Taliban said today.', 'In the second major quake to strike the mountainous nation in less than two years, more than 9,000 people have been injured.', 'The tremors’ epicentre was just 25 miles northwest of Herat City, an ancient city and cultural hub which borders Iran, the United States Geological Survey says. ', 'At least seven aftershocks followed the 11am earthquake, including three magnitude 6.3, 5.9 and 5.5 shakes felt in the neighbouring Badghis and Farah provinces at around noon, the agency said.', 'The Taliban administration declared a state of emergency in fear of more to come. ', 'Mullah Janan Sayeeq, a spokesman for the Ministry of Disasters, said today 2,053 people have died, 9,240 have been injured and 1,320 houses damaged or destroyed.\xa0', 'Given that telephone polls were downed as the nation was rattled by the twin tremors, officials and aid groups say the true death toll is likely to be higher. Many are still missing.', 'The death tally has spiralled in the hours since the earthquake, rising from 500 reported only this morning by the Red Crescent and 16 from Saturday night. ', 'A state health official told Reuters that more than 200 dead have been brought to various hospitals, many of them women and children.', 'The hardest hit area was Herat Province, according to initial reports from a regional hospital.', 'This included at least a dozen villages in Zinda Jan District and Ghoryam District and several more villages in Gulran District and Kushak-e-Rabat Sanghi District were impacted', 'Taliban officials have said there is an urgent need for tents, medicines and food and have appealed to local businesses and humanitarian groups for aid.', 'Sayeeq added to reporters that 10 rescue teams are combing the rubble and mangled metal in the province for survivors. ', 'OCHA Afghanistan, the UN’s humanitarian aid agency in the country, says about 300 families have been displaced. ', 'Social media from the state capital just south of the Paropamisus Mountains showed civilians racing out of their homes and workplaces, wary of them collapsing on top of them.', 'OCHA Afghanistan said on X, formerly known as Twitter: ‘As deaths and casualties from the earthquake continue to be reported, teams are in hospitals assisting the treatment of wounded and assessing additional needs.', '‘WHO-supported ambulances are transporting those affected, most of them women and children.’', 'Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the acting deputy prime minister,\xa0expressed his condolences on X.', 'He said: ‘We wish patience and solace for the families of the victims, along with a swift recovery for the injured.', '‘Immediate relief efforts are underway to provide essential aid to those in need.’', 'Afghanistan, after decades of conflict and the Taliban seizing control in 2021, has become increasingly vulnerable to natural disasters.', 'On average such disasters affect 200,000 people every year, the OCHA says.']"
297,"['A British-Israeli man has described the terrifying 12-hour ordeal that saw him and his wife locked up in a safe room as Hamas attacked their home.', 'The militants stormed the property, situated within a kibbutz, before setting it on fire.', 'It comes as fighting continues between Hamas and Israel, with more than 700 Israelis and 400 Palestinians confirmed dead since Hamas launched their attack on Israel Sunday morning. ', 'The couple waited in their bomb-proof room as smoke began to seep through the door and Hamas and Israeli Defence Force (IDF) soldiers engaged in gunfights. ', '‘For another six hours, we listened to gunfights all around us,’ Ben, who didn’t want to give his full name, told Sky News.', '‘I think there was a gunman on our roof, as the shots sounded so close.’', 'Eventually – after 12 hours in the safe room – they heard Hebrew voices as IDF troops approached the house.', 'The soldiers helped the couple escape through the safe room window and drove them to a nearby sports stadium, from where they were moved to a hotel in an area near the Dead Sea. ', 'Ben is originally from Worcestershire but has lived in a kibbutz called Be’eri, around 5km from the Israeli border with the Gaza Strip for 26 years.', 'He said he awoke Sunday morning to the sound of rockets, but as this is a fairly regular occurrence and the rockets are generally intercepted by Israeli’s Iron Dome system, he was not too alarmed.', 'However, the 52-year-old soon received a text message telling everyone to lock themselves into their safe rooms. ', 'The couple’s safe room is 5x4sq m and has a gas and blast-proof door and window, of which neither can be open from the outside.', 'Even at this stage, Ben and his wife assumed they’d soon be given the all clear but instead heard Arabic voices within the kibbutz.', 'Ben believes around 30 militants had stormed the complex. ', 'The couple were lying on the floor of the room in silence when they heard a loud noise as the front door was knocked in.', 'The pair then heard smashing and banging in the house before it went quiet as, they presumed, the militants left. ', 'They then noticed a crackling sound and saw smoke seeping through the door to their safe room. It turned out the sealant of the door had melted in the heat.', 'Realising their home was on fire, the couple hid under bedsheets to try and protect themselves from the smoke and used a crack in their blinds to access fresh air.', '‘It was so hot, it was so unbelievably hot,’ Ben said, ‘I don’t know how we didn’t pass out.’', 'After they were rescued, and while waiting in a car park where they received food and water, Ben said a solider offered him a pair of socks as he was barefoot.', '‘It was an act of kindness – I won’t forget it, no matter how small it was,’ he added.', 'Ben said he’s now considering leaving Israel as his home of 26 years is ‘gone’. ', 'Israel\xa0formally declared war on Hamas hours after it began pounding the besieged Gaza Strip, deploying some 100,000 reserve troops to the densely populated territory.', 'At least 123,538 people in the Gaza Strip have been internally displaced as a result of the fighting between the two sides. ', 'Most people have fled ‘due to fear, protection concerns and the destruction of their homes’, the United Nations have warned.', 'There are 2.3 million Palestinians living in Gaza, so officials expect the number to rise.', 'You can read Metro’s live blog on the hostilities here.']"
298,"['At least nine Americans have been killed in the ongoing conflict in Israel, the US has confirmed.', 'A spokesperson for the US National Security Council (NSC) confirmed the deaths after the surprise attacks by Palestinian militant group Hamas over the weekend. ', 'Approximately 1,100 people have been killed in the fighting so far, with Israel reporting about 700 casualties and 436 reported in Gaza.', '‘At this time, we can confirm the death of nine US citizens,’ said Matthew Miller, spokesperson for the NSC. ‘We extend our deepest condolences to the victims and to the families of all those affected, and wish those injured a speedy recovery. We continue to monitor the situation closely and remain in touch with our Israeli partners, particularly the local authorities.’', 'The announcement comes only hours after the Israeli Defense Ministry ordered a ‘complete siege’ of the Gaza Strip, the Palestinian territory governed by Hamas.', 'US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told CNN that his department was ‘working overtime to verify’ reports of Americans killed or missing in the violence.', 'Meanwhile, the State Department has asked remaining US citizens in Israel and Palestine to remain on alert due to the ‘unpredictable’ situation.', '‘US citizens are reminded to remain vigilant and take appropriate steps to increase their security awareness as security incidents, including mortar and rocket fire, often take place without warning,’ the State Department said.', 'It also advised US citizens in Gaza that they can safely leave through the Rafah Crossing into Egypt, which remains open at this time.', 'Simultaneously, the BBC reported that more than 10 British citizens are feared dead or missing, citing official sources.', 'The UK Foreign Office has not commented on report.', 'At least one UK citizen killed in the fighting has been identified. Nathaniel Young, a 20-year-old corporal in the Israeli Defense Force, was killed in the fighting, his family confirmed.']"
299,"['After the bloodiest attack against Israel in five decades, the nation is battering the Gaza Strip at a magnitude not seen in past conflicts.', 'Supplies into the territory home to some 2,300,000 people have been cut off by officials as the country’s prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed to ‘fight until victory’.', 'Thousands have been killed on both sides as a wave of death and destruction sweeps the two regions, many more have been injured and at least 210 Israelis are being held hostage in Gaza.', 'In Israel, officials estimate that at least 1,400 people have been killed during the Hamas attacks – mainly on October 7 – and more than 4,000 injured. ', 'At least 4,385 people have been killed in the two weeks since the war erupted, Gazan health officials said yesterday. (This includes at least 1,756, meaning a child is killed every five minutes, according to Islamic Relief.)', 'More than 13,500 have been wounded in the territory. ']"
302,"['More than 10,000 men, women and children lie dead – some under rubble, some burned to death and others with bullet-riddled bodies.', '135 medics, 40 journalists and 88 UN workers have been killed.', '214 schools, where pupils should be sitting, eagerly bidding to answer questions, have been reduced to dust – more than 4,000 young lives taken. Those still alive have missed 22 days of school, somewhere they should have been safe and learning inside classrooms.', 'In Israel, over 1,400 people have been killed while more than 240 soldiers and civilians – including an estimated 37 children – are still being held hostage in the besieged Strip.', 'Thousands of tonnes of bombs – double the force of the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima – have devastated Gaza since Hamas launched terrorist attacks against Israel on October 7. ', 'A dozen hospitals have been shut down due to lack of fuel and damage, leaving nearly 9,000 cancer patients in Gaza without access to treatment.', 'Follow our live blog for latest updates on the Israel-Hamas war', 'The opening salvo of Hamas’ atrocities was the Supernova music festival in the southern Israeli desert, a site which would become synonymous with tragedy and heroism.', 'British man Jake Marlowe, 26, was working as a security guard at the festival when gunmen attacked. His friends say he died helping others to safety.\xa0', 'German tattoo artist Shani Louk, who was kidnapped and murdered after the festival, was an ardent pacifist who campaigned against mandatory military service for Israelis.', 'One month since this bloody conflict erupted, bodies continue to pile up with no end in sight.', 'The families of those missing and unaccounted for have been left with nothing but silence. There is no word from their loved ones, and many assume the worst.', 'Posters plastered across cities show the faces of the youngest victims, taken hostage into Gaza by armed militants.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'Among them are Aviv and Raz Asher, two and four years old, kidnapped and taken into the enclave alongside their mother Doron Katz Asher, 34, and grandmother Efrat Katz, 68.', 'Aviv and Raz had been visiting their grandmother in kibbutz Nir Oz on the Gaza border, one of the first areas to be attacked on October 7.', 'Communities across southern Israel have been left deserted after residents fled, leaving behind empty streets and bullet riddled buildings.', 'But for the estimated two million Palestinians trapped in Gaza since Israel closed all land crossings, there is no choice but to remain. There is nowhere to go.', 'Foreign passport holders and a handful of critically injured were given refuge through the Rafah border with Egypt, but just 1,100 refugees have been allowed to leave the besieged Strip so far.', 'British doctor Abdel Hammad, who works at Royal Liverpool University Hospital, finally left Gaza earlier this month after being stuck there since violence erupted on October 7.', 'His son Salim told Metro: ‘‘My heart goes out to all the people who cannot leave.', '‘As a British national, my father is one of the lucky few who can leave, but there are two million people who can’t.’']"
303,"['‘He’s my son – the one I’ve been wanting for 13 years – and I have no one else. Please save him.’', 'That’s the plea a father carrying his three-year-old son into the hospital said to me. The boy had a severe injury on his right leg, in addition to many fragments of shrapnel embedded in other parts of his body.', 'We immediately treated him with available solutions, bandages, and tourniquets to stop the bleeding. In normal circumstances, we can save part of the leg, but currently there is no capacity in the operating rooms, no medical resources, or supplies available.', 'Therefore, a decision was made to amputate the leg completely above the knee. Unfortunately, due to the lack of anaesthesia drugs, the operation was performed with a drug called ketamine, which is not sufficient for such a procedure.', 'Up Next', 'As a result, the patient remained conscious to some extent – he may not have felt the pain immediately, but he knew what was going on.', 'This is just one of the countless casualties of war that I saw after 7 October while working as a doctor at the Indonesian Hospital in the north of Gaza. ', 'It is a role I have recently had to step away from given the intensive bombing in the region, which has caused significant damage to infrastructure in Gaza and displaced patients, staff, and others sheltering there.', 'But working as a doctor there, and in my current volunteer role helping internally displaced people with their medical needs, I’ve seen too many people injured or killed at the hands of relentless Israeli bombardments – where innocent civilians are paying the price.', 'My dream was always to become a doctor – specifically a cardiologist – so I was happy to be awarded a scholarship under the Qatar Scholarship Project to study medicine, majoring in cardiology at Al-Azhar University in Gaza.\xa0', 'When I graduated in 2021, I never imagined the profession would be like this. I envisioned caring for everyday patients, but I never foresaw playing such a critical role – almost like a soldier defending the lives of the injured.', 'Leaving home for work each day, I had to navigate through many dangerous areas to get to the hospital. Sometimes, areas we passed through were bombed just minutes later – a frequent occurrence.', 'A shift could last for 24 hours straight.', 'At any moment, you might discover someone you know – or a loved one – had been killed. Thankfully, that’s not happened to me personally.', 'The scenes were incredibly harsh. The influx of casualties was overwhelming and there was often nothing we could do for them. We could save some, but others were beyond help.\xa0', 'The extent of the missing limbs and the severity of burns, including fourth-degree burns over large areas, felt unprecedented.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'It’s also because the sheer number of people arriving at hospitals has been overwhelming, stretching medical staff to their limits in terms of both personnel and available beds.', 'In such circumstances, the way of dealing with patients is different – called mass casualty, which means many injuries occurring at once so each doctor performs a step in the care provided. The most important of these steps is stabilising the condition and dealing with life-threatening injuries.\xa0', 'On top of that, there is a severe shortage of medical supplies necessary for surgical procedures and doctors have to work with the bare minimum.']"
304,"['New evidence suggests the young princes famously believed to have been killed in the Tower of London actually made a lucky escape. ', 'Until now it has been widely believed that young King Edward V, 12, and his nine-year-old brother Richard were locked up in the tower and killed by their uncle, Richard III, in his bid for the crown.', 'In Shakespeare’s play ‘Richard III’, the playwright dramatises the story and has the king make orders for the young royal brothers to be murdered.', 'But now Phillipa Langley, the amateur historian who found the remains of Richard III under a car park in Leicester, has made a bombshell new discovery that suggests the brothers may have escaped to Europe instead of being killed by their uncle.', 'The historian will present her ‘startling discoveries’ in an upcoming documentary on Channel 4 on Saturday.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'In The Princes in the Tower: The New Evidence, Ms Langley will present her belief that the two people who history has always said were the princes were actually just two ordinary boys.', 'She believes Lambert Simnel and Perkin Warbeck were the real princes in the tower.', 'It was Simnel and Warbeck who tried and failed to depose Henry VII.', 'Edward V, who never became king, and his brother were sons of King Edward IV, who died in 1483.', 'After their uncle, Richard III, who was Duke of Gloucester at the time, then declared the two brother illegitimate they were taken to the Tower of London.', 'They then disappeared from historical records and, until now, it was widely believed that they were executed.', 'Experts have, for years, been keen to test the remains of four children to see if any of them were the four princes.', 'Two of the bodies were found in the Tower of London in the 1600s while the other two were buried in the grounds of Windsor Castle in the 1700s.', 'But the late Queen Elizabeth II reportedly blocked any requests to test these remains because the bodies had been laid to rest in royal crypts.', 'Ms Langley reveals in the Channel 4 show and in her book – The Princes in the Tower – that the documents found in the European archives suggest the princes escaped and later tried to invade England.', 'In her search for the truth, the historian carried out an investigation with the help of 300 researchers.', 'The contemporaneous documents suggest that Edward V and Prince Richard were actually Simnel and Warbeck.', 'The evidence includes an alleged witness statement from Prince Richard, where he describes being smuggled out of the Tower by Henry and Thomas Percy.', 'And experts have confirmed they have authenticated it as coming from that period of history.', 'The account says: \xa0‘They shaved my hair and put a poor and drab shirt on me and we went to St Katharine’s [dock].’', 'Another piece of evidence from Holland in 1483 has a royal seal of approval and what appears to be a signature from ‘Richard, Duke of York’. ', 'In the document is a promise Richard will pay 30,000 florins to Duke Albert of Saxony after he gains the throne of England.', 'A man who claimed to be Richard arrived in England accompanied by a small army hoping to make a bid for the throne. ', 'He fled to Scotland when his attempt failed, and tried again in 1497.', 'When he was caught he signed a confession declaring he was actually Warbeck, the son of a boatman, but Ms Langley believes it was probably Prince Richard – and thinks this is further evidence he didn’t die in the Tower.', 'The new documentary as well as Ms Langley’s book – The Princes in the Tower – presents a number of other pieces of evidence all pointing to the newfound discovery that the two princes weren’t executed in London.']"
305,"['The Israeli government has approved a ceasefire deal with Hamas which would bring a temporary halt to the devastating siege that has stretched on for over six weeks.', 'Hamas will release dozens of hostages being held in the Gaza Strip in exchange for Palestinians in Israeli prisons.', 'Follow the latest news from the Israel-Gaza conflict in our liveblog', 'Under the deal, Hamas is to free 50 of the roughly 240 hostages it is holding in the Gaza Strip over a four-day period, the Israeli government said on Wednesday.', 'It said it would extend the lull by an additional day for every 10 hostages released.', 'The government said the first hostages to be released would be women and children.', 'A statement released by Qatar, who have acted as mediators with Hamas, said on Wednesday morning that the deal includes ‘the release of a number of Palestinian women and children detained in Israeli prisons, the number of those released will be increased in later stages of implementing the agreement,’ and that it would allow additional humanitarian aid into Gaza.', 'The Israeli statement made no mention of either of these elements.', 'The statement from Qatar’s foreign ministry described the talks that produced the agreement as a mediation by Egypt, the US and Qatar for a ‘humanitarian pause,’ adding that the start time of the truce will be announced within the next day.', 'Ahead of Wednesday morning’s cabinet vote, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel would resume its offensive against Hamas after the ceasefire expires.', 'It was not immediately clear when the truce would go into effect.', 'Mr Netanyahu convened his Cabinet for the vote late on Tuesday.', 'The meeting stretched well into the early hours on Wednesday, underscoring the sensitivity of a proposal that would suspend an Israeli offensive against Hamas before it has reached its goals.', 'Ahead of the vote, Mr Netanyahu sought to assure the government ministers that the break was only tactical, vowing to resume the offensive after the truce expires. Top security officials also attended the meeting.', '‘We are at war, and we will continue the war,’ Mr Netanyahu said. ‘We will continue until we achieve all our goals.’', 'Israel has vowed to continue the war until it destroys Hamas’ military capabilities and returns all hostages.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'Mr Netanyahu said intelligence efforts will be maintained during the lull, allowing the army time to prepare for the next stages of battle. He said the battle would continue until ‘Gaza will not threaten Israel.’', 'The announcement came as Israeli troops battled Palestinian militants in an urban refugee camp in northern Gaza and around hospitals overcrowded with patients and sheltering families.', 'The deal does not mean an end to the war, which erupted on October 7 after Hamas militants stormed across the border into southern Israel and killed at least 1,200 people, most of them civilians, and kidnapped some 240 others.', 'In weeks of Israeli airstrikes and a ground invasion, more than 11,000 Palestinians have been killed, two-thirds of them women and minors, and more than 2,700 others are missing and believed to be buried under rubble, according to Gaza’s health ministry.', 'The ministry says it has been unable to update its count since November 11 because of the health sector’s collapse.', 'Gaza health officials say the toll has risen sharply since, and hospitals continue to report deaths from daily strikes, often dozens at a time.', 'United States President Joe Biden said in a statement late on Tuesday that he welcomes the agreement to release at least 50 hostages being held in Gaza and stressed that ‘it is important that all aspects of this deal be fully implemented.’', '‘I am extraordinarily gratified that some of these brave souls, who have endured weeks of captivity and an unspeakable ordeal, will be reunited with their families once this deal is fully implemented,’ Mr Biden said.', 'He said the agreement should release some American hostages, and added, ‘I will not stop until they are all released.’', 'Mr Biden emphasised that Mr Netanyahu has committed to supporting an ‘extended pause’ to make sure not only all hostages are released but that humanitarian assistance can be sent to Palestinians in Gaza.', '‘Today’s deal is a testament to the tireless diplomacy and determination of many dedicated individuals across the United States Government to bring Americans home,’ Mr Biden said.', 'Earlier on Tuesday, Mr Biden said a deal on releasing some hostages was ‘very close.’', 'Izzat Rishq, a senior Hamas official, said on Tuesday that an agreement could be reached ‘in the coming hours.’', 'Foreign Secretary Lord Cameron said the temporary ceasefire deal between Israel and Hamas was a ‘crucial step’.', 'Lord Cameron said: ‘This agreement is a crucial step towards providing relief to the families of the hostages and addressing the humanitarian crisis in Gaza.', '‘I urge all parties to ensure the agreement is delivered in full. Of course, we want to see all hostages released immediately and families affected by the horrors of the October 7th terror attack reunited.', '‘This pause provides an important opportunity to ensure much greater volumes of food, fuel and other life-saving aid can reach Gaza on a sustained basis.', '‘We have already doubled our aid commitment to Palestinians this year and will work closely with the UN to ensure it reaches those who need it.', '‘The UK will continue to work with all partners in the region to secure the release of all hostages, restore security and reach a long-term political solution which enables both Israelis and Palestinians to live in peace.’']"
306,"['The UN’s Palestine relief agency is now ‘on the verge of collapse’ and ‘barely’ able to help civilians, its chief has warned.', 'More than 130 UNRWA staff have already died in Gaza and around 7,000 ‘lack food, water and adequate shelter’ after being forced from their homes amid Israeli shelling, Commissioner-General Philippe Lazzarini said on Friday.', 'In a desperate letter to UN leaders pleading for an ‘immediate’ ceasfire, he wrote: ‘We are hanging on by our fingertips.', '‘If the UNRWA collapses, humanitarian assistance in Gaza will also collapse.’', 'The UNRWA employs around 10,000 people in Gaza, most of whom are Palestinians, to run schools, health clinics and other relief services.', 'Mr Lazzarini said he expects more of his staff to die in the ongoing Israeli offensive.', 'Branding the current situation ‘the darkest hour in the Agency’s 75-year-history’, he warned the UNRWA’s ability to continue working is ‘today severely limited with immediate and dire consequences’ for civilian lives.', '‘Today, as a result of Israel’s military operation, nearly 1.2 million civilians are sheltering in UNRWA premises,’ Mr Lazzarini wrote.', '‘Our staff are still operating health centres, managing shelters, and supporting traumatised people, some arriving carrying their dead children.', '‘We are still distributing food, even though the corridors and courtyards of our premises are too crowded to walk through.', '‘Our staff take their children to work so they know they are safe or can die together.’', 'In my 35 years of work in complex emergencies, I never have expected to write such a letter, predicting the killing of my staff & the collapse of the mandate I am expected to fulfill #Gaza pic.twitter.com/b2S9WAapCt', 'As well as a ‘humanitarian ceasefire’ Mr Lazzarini repeated calls for the UN General Assembly to ‘enforce international law’ in Gaza and ‘protect prospects for a political solution’. ', 'He also reiterated previous warnings that refugees may be forced to push ‘to Egypt and beyond’, which could ‘end prospects for [a] political solution’.', 'The UNRWA has faced criticism over allegations of staff being linked with Hamas and glorifying or sympathising with violence against Israeli civilians.', 'Germany, the second-largest UNRWA donor after the USA, recently froze its funding to the agency following findings that teaching materials glorifying violent Jihad and anti-Semitism were being handed out at UNRWA schools.', 'The German Development Ministry was reportedly shown evidence of UNRWA teachers and other staff celebrating the October 7 massacres by Hamas.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'On five separate occasions over the past five years, the European Parliament has issued resolutions in which it ‘stressed that antisemitic content in Palestinian textbooks, including even incitement to violence, has still not been removed’ after calls to do so.', 'The UNRWA has criticised the resolutions and says it has ‘stringent staff conduct framework in place to ensure that staff members do not affiliate themselves, and by extension, UNRWA, with any other groups’.', 'Almog Boker, an Israeli journalist with broadcaster Channel 13, last week reported that an unnamed former hostage recently released from Gaza told him that he had spent almost 50 days being held in an attic by a UNRWA teacher.', 'The UNRWA has called the claims ‘unsubstantiated’ and lacking ‘credible information’ to support them.', 'Mr Boker has since said he is unable to disclose further information without endangering other hostages still in Gaza.']"
307,"['A record number of children face Christmas ‘without a safe place to call home’, a national housing and homelessness charity has warned.', 'Shelter said that parents are ‘desperately’ trying to cope after government figures revealed that almost 139,000 children in England are living in temporary accommodation.', 'A rise of 14% on last year, the alarming statistics show that 7,500 of those counted were in hostels or B&Bs, with 17,660 living in council or housing association properties.', 'Shelter has identified ‘record-high private rents’ as being a key part of the problem, with households struggling amid the cost of living crisis.\xa0\xa0']"
308,"['At least 61 people are missing and presumed dead after a shipwreck off the western coast of Libya, in the latest migrant tragedy off north\xa0Africa.', 'The UN’s International Organisation for Migration (IOM) said in a statement on X that strong waves swamped it off the town of Zuwara on Saturday.', 'Citing survivors’ accounts, it said there were about 86 migrants aboard the vessel when it departed.', '‘The central Mediterranean continues to be one of the most dangerous migration routes in the world,’ the agency wrote.', 'ð\x9f\x9a¨ 61 migrants including women and children drowned following a tragic shipwreck off Libya. According to the survivors, the boat with around 86 people left the libyan shores from Zwara. The central Mediterranean continues to be one of the world’s most dangerous migration routes. pic.twitter.com/RsFSUzzFYK', 'Libya has emerged as the dominant transit point for migrants fleeing violence and poverty in Africa and the Middle East.', 'The country is a major launching point for people trying to reach the Europe, with more than 2,250 people dying on this route this year, IOM spokesperson Flavio Di Giacomo said.', 'It is ‘a dramatic figure which demonstrates that unfortunately not enough is being done to save lives at sea,’ he said.', 'IOM data shows that more than 28,000 Africans have died or disappeared in the Mediterranean since 2014.', 'Human traffickers have benefited from the chaos in Libya, smuggling in migrants across the country’s lengthy borders, which it shares with six nations. ', 'They are crowded into ill-equipped vessels, including rubber boats, and set off on risky sea voyages.', 'Those who are intercepted and then returned to Libya are held in government-run detention centres rife with abuses, including forced labour, torture and rapes, which amount to crimes against humanity, according to UN-commissioned investigators.']"
309,"['Alex Batty’s first public comments on his return to the UK were to say he’s ‘glad to be home for Christmas’.', 'He was just 11 when his mum and grandad took him away on what was supposed to have been a two-week family holiday to Spain.', 'But that fortnight’s trip would turn into six long years and span at least three countries before Alex, now 17, was found walking alone on a remote stretch of road in the French Pyrenees.', 'Investigators either side of the Channel are now working to piece together how and why he disappeared – and what happened in the time he was gone.', 'Here is everything we know so far about Alex’s disappearance.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Alex, originally from Oldham, Greater Manchester, went missing while travelling with his mother, Melanie, and grandfather, David, in Marbella in October 2017.', 'The trip was pre-arranged but neither relative was his legal guardian and the alarm was raised when they failed to return him.', 'His grandmother, Susan Caruana, has said she believed the pair took him away planning to live an ‘alternative lifestyle’.', 'Alex told French officials he had experienced a nomadic way of life in Spain, Morocco and France with them as part of a ‘spiritual community’.', 'He said the family moved from place to place, grew their own food, meditated and contemplated reincarnation and other esoteric subjects.', 'Toulouse Assistant Public Prosecutor Antoine Leroy told reporters he knew the life he was having with his mother ‘had to stop’ after she announced intentions to move to Finland.', 'Alex was picked up by chiropody student Fabien Accidini near the French city of Toulouse in the early hours of December 13 after walking across the Pyrenees ‘for four days and four nights’.', 'Fabien Accidini said the boy told him ‘that he had been kidnapped by his mother’ years ago.', 'He added ‘that he’d been in France for the past two years in a spiritual community that was a bit strange with his mother who is also a bit strange’.', ""Sorry, this video isn't available any more."", 'Mr Accidini said he did not initially believe the story but later agreed to call the police.', 'He said: ‘After I called the police to explain the situation, when the cops arrived, that’s when I realised the whole story (was real).’', 'The student said\xa0Alex\xa0did not seem angry at being held in the ‘community’ and said he had not been chained up – although it was unclear if he had been allowed to leave at any time.', 'Mr Accidini said: ‘He didn’t have regrets (about leaving the community)… he just wanted to live a normal life, to see his grandmother again and to have a normal future, that’s the word that he used.’', 'Interviewed for the first time, Alex said he decided to return to the UK for a better future.', 'He told The Sun he realised he realised he could no longer live with his ‘anti-government, anti-vax’ mother after an argument.', 'Speaking about Melanie\xa0Batty, he said: ‘She’s a great person and I love her but she’s just not a great mum.', '‘I had an argument with my mum and I just thought I’m gonna leave because I can’t live with her.’', 'He went on: ‘I realised it wasn’t a great way to live for my future.', '‘Moving around. No friends, no social life. Working, working, work and not studying. That’s the life I imagined I would be leading if I were to stay with my mum.’', 'Alex revealed he wrote a ‘goodbye’ letter to his mum telling her ‘how much I loved her, how much I appreciated what she had done for me’ and that he didn’t want her to worry or be angry.', 'He said: ‘I wrote that note 20 minutes before I left.’', 'Mr Accidini said Alex told him he spent three years living in a luxury house in Spain with 10 others before leaving for France in 2021.', 'Prosecutor Mr Leroy said the teen had spent the past two years in different areas across the south of the country, living in ‘spiritual communities’ with his mother, but not in a sect.', 'The family he had been staying with said\xa0Alex\xa0had been living on-and-off in their remote mountain farmhouse since autumn 2021, where his grandfather, David\xa0Batty, worked as a handyman in exchange for their room and board.', 'Owners of Gite de la Bastide, Frederic Hambye and Ingrid Beauve, said\xa0Alex’s\xa0mother, Melanie\xa0Batty, did not live at the property and during that time she stayed in ‘successive places of residence between Aude and Ariege’ – around 50 kilometres north and 120 kilometres west of the farmhouse.', 'In a statement obtained by MailOnline, they said: ‘As far as we know, she (Ms\xa0Batty) was looking for a place to live in a community. La Bastide does not have this ambition. Nor are we a spiritual community.’', 'The statement added: ‘As time went on, we saw him as part of our family and we think he appreciated the stability and security we represent for him.', '‘We encouraged him to learn French and study. In particular, we helped him find a school where he could be admitted without prior education. He showed a certain aptitude for computers.', '‘He was eager to go to school and get back to a normal life – and for that he needed his ID which he told us he no longer had.', '‘When we learned that he did not have an ID, we offered to drive him to the British Consulate. He told us he would find a way to return to the UK on his own to get new [identity] papers and go back to school. To this end, he told us, he left on December 17 to join his mother.’', 'They said they knew\xa0Alex\xa0as Zach and he arrived at the gite with his grandfather and mother, though Ms\xa0Batty\xa0was said to have never lived there.', 'During his stays,\xa0Alex\xa0had his own room, unlimited free internet access, and freedom to come and go as he pleased, they said – adding that he also liked to cook, participate in life at the gite and enjoyed cycling and visiting the beach.', 'They said he also got on well with the pair’s children and ate dishes prepared by Ms Beauve and Mr Hambye’s that included beef stew, chocolate cake and pasta bolognese.', 'Alex\xa0would reportedly accompany the couple to the nearby market to buy tuna sandwiches and meet his mother, with whom Ms Beauve and Mr Hambye said they had little contact.', 'The pair said the boy stayed for ‘some longer and shorter periods’ and would also visit his mother.', 'The property is in Camps-sur-l’Agly, they said, a commune that had a population of 51 people in 2020, according to the French census.', 'Tourists, hikers, cyclists and horseback riders travelling in the area are said to visit the site.', 'Alex\xa0was described as ‘tired’ but ‘in good health’ after being checked over by French officials and seemed ‘intelligent’ even though he had not attended school for six years.', 'Mr Leroy also said the boy did not appear to have been subjected to any physical violence.', 'Assistant Chief Constable Matt Boyle said Greater Manchester Police will not comment on what the youngster was doing while abroad following the ‘detailed’ disclosures by the French authorities, as they have not yet received a statement from him.', 'He told reporters: ‘We are aware the French authorities disclosed detailed information yesterday during their press conference relating to what\xa0Alex\xa0may have been doing and where he has been over his years missing.', '‘Greater Manchester Police are yet to obtain any formal statement from\xa0Alex\xa0and therefore we cannot comment at this time.’', 'Alex’s mum Melanie is believed to have moved to Finland although her exact whereabouts remain unknown.', 'A friend, Susie Harrison, told\xa0TheSun\xa0she last saw Ms Batty a few weeks ago.', 'Describing her as a ‘conspiracy theorist’, she said: ‘She believed\xa0Covid-19\xa0was not real, that it was created by the state to control the people.', '‘I don’t know what she did for money, but I know she gave therapeutic massages. She really wanted to set up a spiritual community here in the south of France.’', 'Mr Leroy said: ‘It is possible that the mother at this time has in fact gone to Finland as she planned.’', 'And an investigation source told The Sun: ‘The boy [Alex] claims that his mother has gone to Finland to see the Northern Lights, so the search for her is continuing across Europe.', '‘This does not mean that the search has stopped in France – she has been placed here regularly over the years, and may well still be hiding in the countryside.’', 'French prosecutors have said her father and Alex’s grandfather David died six months ago, but even this is far from certain.', 'No record of Mr Batty’s death has been filed, and neighbours in the hamlet of La Bastide, near Carcassonne, where they once lived, said they saw him looking fit and well within the last month.', 'Police are now considering whether to open a criminal investigation into the disappearance.', 'Up Next', 'Mr Boyle said: ‘Speaking with him [Alex] at a pace that feels comfortable to him will ultimately determine how this case is progressed, and whether there is a criminal investigation to ensue.', '‘Our continued focus is supporting\xa0Alex\xa0and his family, in partnership with other local agencies – to ensure that they are safe, their wellbeing is looked after, and his re-integration with society is as easy as possible.', '‘We are yet to fully establish the circumstances surrounding his disappearance, but no matter what, we understand that this may be an overwhelming process.', '‘He may now be six years older than when he went missing, but he is still a young person.’']"
310,"['An Israeli airstrike has killed 76 members of one extended family in Gaza, according to rescue officials.', 'Yesterday’s strike, which hit a building in Gaza City, was one of the deadliest since the war began 12 weeks ago, said Mahmoud Bassal, a spokesman for the besieged enclave’s Civil Defense department.', 'He shared the names of some of those killed, including 16 heads of households from the al-Mughrabi family and said several victims were women and children.', 'Issam al-Mughrabi, a veteran employee of the UN Development Program, his wife and their five children, were also among the dead, he said.', 'Achim Steiner, the head of the agency, said: ‘The loss of Issam and his family has deeply affected us all. ', '‘The UN and civilians in Gaza are not a target. This war must end.’', 'Israel declared war after Hamas militants went across the border on October 7, killing around 1,200 people and taking some 240 hostages.', 'More than 20,000 Palestinians have since died in reprisal aerial and ground assaults, with more than 53,000 wounded, health officials in Gaza say.', 'Israel has vowed to continue fighting until Hamas is destroyed, their power removed in Gaza and all hostages freed.', 'It blames the high death toll on Hamas, claiming they hide in crowded residential areas and use tunnels under buildings such as hospitals. ', 'The country has carried out thousands of airstrikes and often don’t comment on specific attacks or discuss the intended target. ', 'Yesterday, the UN Security Council adopted a watered-down resolution that calls for immediately speeding up aid deliveries to desperate civilians in Gaza. ', 'The US won the removal of a tougher call for an ‘urgent suspension of hostilities’ between Israel and Hamas. ', 'The resolution was the first on the war to make it through the council after the US vetoed two earlier ones calling for humanitarian pauses and a full cease-fire.', 'UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres reiterated his longstanding call for a humanitarian cease-fire.', 'In a news conference, he said the way Israel is conducting its offensive creates ‘massive obstacles to the distribution of aid inside Gaza’.', 'More than half a million people in Gaza – a quarter of the population – are starving, according to a report form the UN and other agencies.', 'Shielded by the Biden administration, Israel has so far resisted international pressure to scale back.']"
312,"['A six-year-old girl was trapped with the bloodied bodies of members of her family after a shelling on their car.', 'Little Hind was reportedly travelling with her mother’s uncle and her four cousins when Israel’s military attacked them in Gaza City’s Tuffah neighbourhood.', 'Chaos erupted as the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) targeted the central areas of the city, including UN-run shelters, yesterday.', 'Hind’s family were just some of the Palestinians targeted as they tried to flee the area and stopped at gas station.', 'She was the sole survivor in the attack on their car, according to the Palestine Red Crescent Society (PRCS).', 'One of Hind’s cousins, Layan Hamadeh, called the organisation as Israeli soldiers aimed at them.', 'â\x8fºï¸\x8fAudio recording of the moment gunfire was directed at 15-year-old Layan Hamadeh while she was speaking on the phone with the Palestine Red Crescent team. ð\x9f\x92\x94Layan was killed, and 6-year-old Hind remained trapped inside the car surrounded by the occupation tanks and soldiers.â\x80¦ pic.twitter.com/iMHGdoRcni', 'According to a recoding of the call, the 16-year-old said: ‘They are shooting at us.', '‘The tank is next to me. We are (hiding) in the car, we are next to the tank.’', 'As the PRCS responder continues asking ‘hello’, ‘hello’, Layan’s voice disappears and instead the sound of gunfire can be heard.', '‘Hind remained for hours pleading for our teams to reach her and evacuate her from the area surrounded by Israeli tanks,’ PRCS wrote on X yesterday.', '‘Around 6pm, our teams reached the area where Hind was trapped inside the car, which had been shot near the Fares petrol station in Gaza. ', '‘Since then, we lost contact with the team, and as of now, we are uncertain if our teams successfully reached the girl.’', 'Paramedics were deployed to the scene to help the youngster, but PRCS has since lost contact with them.', 'At least 18 hours have passed since then and the organisation has no idea if they reached the car and rescued Hind.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'Earlier today, Israeli forces handed over to Palestinian authorities the bodies of dozens of people killed in recent weeks, health officials in the Palestinian enclave said.', 'The bodies, which had been held in Israel, were handed over through the Israeli-controlled Kerem Shalom crossing and will be buried in mass graves in the city of Rafah in the south of the\xa0Gaza\xa0Strip, the officials said.', 'The health ministry in\xa0Gaza\xa0did not immediately say how many bodies had been handed over, but residents put the number at around 100.']"
313,"['Mustafa Alokoud’s 14-year-old son Noureddin goes to sleep in his winter coat, so terrified is he that an earthquake could strike again.', ' It’s a trauma response to the fatal earthquakes that hit Turkey and Syria this time last year.', 'The family of four were fast asleep in their beds in Gaziantep, southeastern Turkey, when the quake hit in the early hours of 6 February 2023. ']"
314,"['A woman has been charged with attempted murder after two children were rushed to hospital following a suspected poisoning.', 'Jilumol George, 38, of Uckfield, East Sussex, appeared at Brighton Magistrates’ Court on Saturday.', 'She is charged with two counts of attempted murder and two counts of administering poison with intent to endanger life or inflict grievous bodily harm.', 'George was remanded in custody to appear at a crown court on March 8.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'Emergency services were called to a property in Hunters Way, Uckfield, East Sussex, on Thursday, where the two children, aged 9 and 13, and a woman aged 38 were taken to hospital for treatment.', 'Chief Inspector Mark Evans said: ‘I want to reassure the local community that this is an isolated incident and we are not looking for anyone else in connection with it.', '‘This is a fast-moving investigation and there will be an increased police presence in the area over the next few days, however, I am satisfied there is no wider risk to the public.’']"
316,"['As Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine reaches its second year, there is little hope families will be reunited with their kidnapped children anytime soon. ', 'At least 20,000 children were ripped away from their everyday lives and taken to foreign countries where they have been tortured, denied food and any contact with their loved ones.', 'Russia has been accused of the largest state-sponsored kidnapping of children in modern history, but the figure is feared to be much higher. ', 'Maria Lvova-Belova, Russian commissioner for children’s rights, even boasted the state has ‘evacuated’ 300,000 Ukrainian kids from their bombed out homes. ', 'Putin’s forces went so far as to target orphanages, meaning many children are facing brutal Russian indoctrination without anyone back home searching for them.', '‘It’ll take years, and become a multi-generational struggle,’ Wayne Jordash, leading war crimes prosecutor and\xa0Managing Partner of human rights law firm Global Rights Compliance told Metro. ', 'Mr Jordash spends his days listening to the testimonies of parents who have lost their children to Putin’s forces. ', 'He said the reports he hears are ‘harrowing, gut-wrenching and traumatic’ and will stay with him forever. ', 'Up Next', '‘Listening to a parents talking about their missing child isn’t just something you forget,’ he said. ', 'But the worst is when the parents are no longer alive to tell Mr Jordash about their children themselves. ', '‘I have had to speak to neighbours to understand what has happened to children who are suspected of being taken across the border into Russia because the parents have been killed in a missile strike,’ he said. ', '‘In some cases the adult statements of loss, trauma and anxiety are more shocking than the children’s.’ ', 'A picture is still being painted of what is happening to children, but it is clear they are being forced into a militaristic education to turn them against what they thought as home. ', 'Children have also reported being denied basic necessities, with only older ones able to find ways to communicate what is happening back home. ', 'The International Criminal Court has accused Russia of attempting to ‘re-educate’ the children, which included threatening violence as punishment.', 'One teenager said he was told: ‘We will take you to a boarding school, you will sit there and understand everything.', '‘One girl was hit on the back, she had a big bruise on her back from where the rod was.', '‘We were sat in the hall, and there someone shouted, “Glory to Ukraine!” They were taken away. But I don’t know what happened to him.’', 'One mum, Inesda Vertosh, said her son is not ready to talk about his experience in the camp.', '‘He looks at me and says “Mom, I don’t want to tell you about it, you wouldn’t sleep at night”.’', '‘What we are hearing is these kidnapped children are abused, they do not have proper food, medical treatment and care, while they are very aware they have loved ones back home in Ukraine,’ Mr Jordash said. ', '‘These children have been left very traumatised, and are fearing they will never see their families again.’ ', 'Only 300 of the kidnapped children have been returned, and there is little sign this number will grow.', 'In March, the International Criminal Court issued arrest warrants for Putin and Lvova-Belova, siting responsbility for the unlawful deportation and transfer of children.', 'Despite this being the first time the court has issued an arrest warrant against the leader of a permanent member of the United National Security Council, the work to get them back home is a slow-process. ', 'Part of this is due to the fact many have forgotten about the young ones ripped from their parent’s arms. ', 'Mr Jordash said: ‘There doesn’t seem to be as much attention or sense of horror as would be fitting for such terrible crimes in the media.', '‘There are lot of\xa0terrible crimes and there is diminishing sense of interest and we live in a 24 hour news cycle.’ ', 'Up Next', 'Yet it is more important than ever to know how children can be brainwashed and treated so cruelly by invading forces as the threat of World War Three looms over Europe. ', 'In 2017, a report revealed 1,600 children had been abducted in Somlia and forced to fight by Al-Shabaab.', 'And in the early 2000s in northern Uganda, the Lord’s Resistance Army carried out systematic abductions to recruit children and commit sexual violence. ', '‘The taking of children is no where near unique to Ukraine,’ Mr Jordash said. ‘It has been seen over and over again in colonial wars putting us all at risk of it happening again.', '‘What the Ukrainians are facing is relentless: The crimes are the same, the horrors are the same, while US military aid is being held up in Congress.’']"
317,"['Struggling to sleep at her parents’ home on the outskirts of Kherson, it wasn’t the sound of missile attacks in the distance that was keeping Olha awake, it was the ‘what if’s’ that swirled through her head.', 'She had noted Vladimir Putin’s chilling warnings to Nato. She had read about the growing military presence near the border. Yet, the mum-of-two never actually thought war would actually come to Ukraine.', 'But it did – and as Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022, Olha was overcome with guilt.', 'How could she have missed this growing sense of danger, she berated herself?', '‘On dark nights, I would blame myself that my intuition wasn’t good enough,’ Olha tells Metro. ‘I wish I’d known to escape before the war began. I would think to myself “I’m a terrible mother, how did I ever let this happen to my children.”', '‘I knew we could die at any moment. We were so weak and delicate, like grasshoppers. We could get crushed at any second.', '‘I thought of escape all the time. It wasn’t fear for my own life, but an animalistic need to protect my children.’', 'Before the war, Olha had worked as an English teacher in Kherson. She also ran a cinema club, which allowed young people to study acting. The group had written scripts in anticipation of making their own film, and Olha had penciled in rehearsals throughout February and March.', '‘We were full of plans,’ she explains. ‘Before February 24, I thought the idea of an invasion was nonsense. I thought “how could war happen here in the 21st century?” For me, I thought the situation would be resolved without battle or bloodshed.', '‘When the Russians came I heard huge “boom” noises in the distance, like a giant was walking on the ground. The noise sounded like the words “DOOM, DOOM, DOOM”. I realised immediately that the war had started.', '‘I woke my son and daughter then decided we would go to Kherson’s train station. But it was empty when we got there. We tried the bus station, no luck.', '‘I eventually tried to hitchhike out of Kherson but we could not escape in any way. The children were confused and I was almost frozen in fear. But I had to contain some of my fear and take responsibility for them.’', 'Eventually, the family walked several miles across Kherson to reach Olha’s parents house on the outskirts of the city. There, although they could no longer see the bombs fall, they could still hear the explosions.', 'We didn’t sleep at night,’ remembers Ohla. ‘We did not know if we would live or die when our eyes were shut. I read about the situation in Mariupol. I feared we would be next.’', 'Olha, like many Ukrainians, struggled to keep track of Russia’s movements in the war as internet signal was severely hampered. She couldn’t access websites from her parent’s home, but she could reach the online world from a nearby yoga studio.', '‘It was strange, a yoga studio is somewhere we go to relax,’ she says. ‘But I would go and see pictures of shelled out cars, ruined buildings and devastation within my country. I got very stressed.’', 'Soon, Ohla began to help with volunteer efforts. She and others would meet in the studio and track where aid was and how it could be dispersed throughout Kherson. Sometimes, they did yoga to relax.', 'But while she was keeping busy, it was a different story for Ohla’s son and daughter – whom she prefers not to name.', 'She adds: ‘They were not playing in the yard or studying, they could not see friends. They had no chance to grow. They had no life under occupation.', '‘When spring came, it was not like the ones I knew before. I didn’t hear birds, there were no flowers blossoming and I could barely see the blue sky for ash and smoke. I don’t remember seeing the stars at night, but maybe I didn’t have the energy to look.', '‘It felt like my home city had become a prison. Escape was our only chance at life.', '‘By the end of March I found people on the Internet who were leaving the city and had spaces in their car. We paid £40 for them to take myself and my children out of Kherson.’', 'The four-hour car journey to an evacuation point in Odessa was one of anxiety as the car passed through a pot-holed “gray zone” where fighting sporadically took place. At one point, the driver pointed out an unexploded mine at the side of the road.', 'In Odessa, Olha and her children boarded a 20-hour train into Poland.', '‘We had to travel the whole way without any lights, so Russian planes would not spot us,’ she remembers. ‘We often sat in silence with, as we say in Ukraine, “our fists firm” until we crossed the border.', '‘But I also felt a bit of calmness at last, I felt we were being taken care of. Terrorists had been lurking around Kherson and had had our lives in their hands for weeks. Now, in Poland, we felt protected.’', 'Olha and her children were hosted by a family in Przemyśl while they regained their bearings and planned a more long-term location. They applied for the sponsorship scheme in the UK and found a home in West London, where they still live today.', 'But life is still incredibly tough for them.', '‘I struggle with survivors’ guilt’, Olha explains. ‘I feel guilty for smiling. How can I smile when people are dying in my home country. But the safety of my children is important, I want to give them a life back.’', 'Her children’s experience of an upbringing marred by war, chaos and uncertainty, echoes Olha’s own childhood, growing up in the Soviet Union in the eighties.', '‘In kindergarten we were prepared for war all the time,’ she recalls. ‘We were told stories about the Second World War and asked “what would you do” if we were in this situation.', '‘Boys would play war games outside where some of them were “Soviets” and some of them were “Nazis.” It was not a relaxed childhood.’', 'Now, Olha hopes, she and her children can forge a new chapter for themselves; one of hope.', '‘I feel I can breathe again. I have hope for life and not a fear of death,’ she says. ‘My children are getting an education and socialising with a roof over their heads, they are now going in a good direction. Their teachers are very good and they learn a lot from being in London and meeting new people.', '‘But they struggle. They didn’t want to watch the fireworks at New Year’s and they don’t like the sounds of sirens. I don’t know if that will ever change, the recovery will take a long time.', '‘To think it has now been two years since the invasion makes me feel a lot of sadness. There are so many unnecessary deaths and broken families.', '‘My children ask “Will we see our grandparents again? Can we ever go home?.” I say, “I hope so.”', 'Olha has shared her story as part of a new campaign by Yasha Estraikh, who has created a replacement for Russian vodka in light of the war in Ukraine. He hopes to raise £1,000,000 for the charity War Child.']"
318,"['A young girl has drowned while trying to cross from France to England in a small boat.', 'The girl, aged seven, was one of around 15 migrants on the flimsy vessel including her pregnant mother. ', 'Local authorities said the boat capsized a few kilometres from the coast, shortly after those on board had got on.', 'The girl’s parents, who were on board with their three other children, were transported to a hospital centre in Dunkirk. ', 'In a press release, the Northern Prefecture said the boat was probably stolen and ‘not sized to support so many people’. ', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", 'It had not yet even reached the open waters of the Channel, as it was still in the Aa river where they had boarded.', 'The other passengers included another couple, two men and six young children who were all taken to hospital, without their lives being at risk. ', 'Police and firefighters were alerted to the sinking by a walker who saw the danger, the prefecture said. ', 'It is the second Channel tragedy only this week. ', 'On Wednesday, a 22-year-old Turkish man died after falling from a boat off the coast of Calais, in an incident were two other migrants are still missing. ', 'Yesterday an Eritrean national suspected of being responsible was indicted and detained. ']"
319,"['The family of a missing teenage girl, 14, have launched an urgent search for her days after she disappeared in Coventry.', 'Paris Cole was last seen in Coventry city centre around 7.30pm on Friday, March 8, wearing her school uniform.', 'She was wearing a black blazer, white shirt, purple tie and either a black skirt and tights or black trousers – she did not have a change of clothes with her.', 'Paris’ phone also appears to have been switched off, her family said.', 'Her grandmother, Su Al Gorbo, pleaded on Facebook: ‘We are all as a family extremely worried about her and just want her home safely.', ""Start your day informed with Metro's News Updates newsletter or get Breaking News alerts the moment it happens. "", '‘To my Tilly Gal, if you see this post please try to make contact with me. You are not in any trouble but I need to know you are safe.’', 'Her family said police are involved in the search, and CCTV is being reviewed for any further sightings of the schoolgirl.', 'West Midlands Police\xa0have urged anyone with any information to come forward: ‘We are looking for Paris and anyone with information has been asked to get in touch on 999, quoting PID: 437282.’']"
323,"['When was the last time you had a conversation with someone on your commute?', 'A reader writes in to MetroTalk, wondering how many special interactions we’re missing out on by staring down at our screens.', 'Meanwhile, readers respond to the government compensating victims of the infected blood scandal, wonder why sorry seems to be the hardest word, until you’re caught, and a vegan reader explains why have an ethical and moral case for refusing to be vaccinated.', 'Share your thoughts on these topics and more in the comments.', 'Further to the replies to John Bradley asking whether he was alone in not rejoicing at news the London Underground was getting more mobile connectivity (MetroTalk, Wed).', 'Unfortunately, I very rarely travel on the Underground these days due to being a homeworker. But I was shocked on one journey when my phone rang while at a Tube station. ‘What the heck?!’', 'When travelling with my kids, they find it amusing (yet appreciate) how I get talking with like-minded folk.', 'They were laughing when I met a lovely gentleman who was spectacularly outfitted in the most extravagant attire.', 'We began a conversation, by the end of which he had invited me to a pagan party he was going to. Other conversations have led to similar invites – some quite enticingand some not so exciting.', 'But if more and more people have their faces aimed squarely at that unsocial device they so love, these conversations and invitations may become a thing of days gone by. Alps, via email', 'So-called celebrities at Chelsea Flower Show really annoy me. Why don’t they pay for their tickets? Ordinary folk could benefit by paying lower prices but overall income would remain the same. Henry Hannon, Bristol', 'I am shocked to hear officers have been told to consider making fewer arrests by the National Police Chiefs Council because of a lack of prison space.', 'No wonder there is more shoplifting andabuse of shopworkers, not to mention even more serious knife crime.', 'It gives you visions of someone being mugged or worse and ringing the police to be told, ‘Sorry that’s not on the list of arrests.’ I know this is an exaggeration but it does make you wonder where the line is drawn. It’s shocking, frightening and absolutely ludicrous. Corin, London', 'I think it is a shame that, even in the 21st century, readers such as Graham (MetroTalk, Mon) believe poverty causes people to steal.', 'I have read about a number of famous wealthy people who shoplifted and were prosecuted. Stealing is a crime, whether thieves get prosecuted or not, and \u2028I believe most people would have too much pride to lower themselves to theft.Chas, London', 'Your report quotes the head of the infected blood inquiry, Sir Brian Langstaff, as saying that the NHS, doctors and successive governments tried to hide the truth (Metro, Tue). As many as 30,000 people received blood products contaminated with HIV and hepatitis from the 1970s to 1990s.', 'Although they are not named it is likely that Sir Brian has a shrewd idea of at least some of the individuals responsible for this failure. ', 'Even more amazing is the fact that among these people, there appears to have been not one single whistleblower; not one individual with the moral courage and decency to even speak out. Is the reason for this catastrophic failure to do so as simple as looking after number one?', 'While it is clear that the victims of the scandal deserve every penny of compensation that they get (and a lot more), surely those responsible should be named and shamed for their inhuman behaviour. Any doctor who shied away from blowing the whistle and went along with the cover-up should be struck off; nobody would want to be treated by such an unprincipled doctor.', 'As for the non-medical public servants, they should be barred from holding public office for life – they, too, had a duty of care for the public they were appointed \u2028to serve.', 'However, it seems unlikely that any such naming and shaming will ensue. ', 'The weak moral calibre and cowardice of the people responsible will ensure \u2028that they are already bolting for cover \u2028and finding reasons and excuses not to \u2028be dragged into it.', 'Perhaps a few will be named but vast majority will escape unsullied. Meanwhile 3,000 people have died, 30,000 have had their lives turned upside down. ', 'How about getting rid of those responsible, Mr Sunak? Perhaps a saving grace for your dying government? Dr Pete M, Maidenhead', 'Now the government has agreed compensation for those affected by the blood scandal (Metro, Wed), expect your phones and email to be bombarded by ‘Have you been affected by the blood scandal? We will get you compensation’ messages. My advice is not to use these scammers. The process might be lengthy and bureaucratic but it can be done. Pedro, Hammersmith', 'Up Next', 'Sean ‘Diddy’ Combs is ‘truly sorry’ for beating his then girlfriend, Cassie Ventura (Metro, Mon). Rishi Sunak is ‘truly sorry’ for the NHS blood scandal. The boss of South West Water is ‘truly sorry’ for poisoning Devon’s water. Apologising has lost all meaning, They’re all only sorry they got caught or punished, or are trying to appear sympathetic in these big stories. Jordan, London', 'Diplomats owe Transport for London £143.5million in unpaid congestion charges (Metro, Wed).The US Embassy is the worst offender, refusing to pay its £14.6m bill because its staff are exempt from ‘taxes’, despite TfL saying it’s a charge not a tax. With this in mind, I hereby designate myself ambassador of the People’s Republic of South-East London. As such, I’m sorry, Mayor Khan, but you can park your Ulez bills where the sun doesn’t shine! Owen, Catford', 'I have travelled a lot in my life and been close to terrorist attack in cities like Paris, so I take the British Transport Police message ‘See it, say it, sorted’ seriously and so it should be. So I find Alsef’s hijacking of the slogan with ‘See it, say it, picket’ disrespectful – it undermines what is an important message, that we all need to be alert in these times. Tom, Doncaster', 'Is BBC MasterChef becoming elitist nonsense? Dishes being cooked are totally irrelevant to ordinary families in Britain. And even the guest judges seem pious and rather superior, in my opinion. Maybe it’s time it got back to reality.KT, Edinburgh', 'Is it me, or does the brief glimpse of a little sunshine make the world seem a better place? Jim, London', 'Alan (MetroTalk, May 15) says we should increase defence spending. I see where he is coming from but would like to offer an alternative viewpoint. Instead of increasing military spending, increase the time and money spent on diplomacy and bridge-building between peoples.War does not solve problems. Violence begets violence and our baser instincts and hatred are fostered. When we put our faith in weapons and war, for the most part it is children and women who suffer the most.The only road to a true and lasting peace is the long and difficult road of forgiveness and reconciliation. So our governments would better serve their people if each stopped trying to force its own ideology on others and found ways to work together to change our broken food system, our broken financial systems, our broken trade systems and to halt our runaway climate change. Kath, North Tyneside', 'Sharon (MetroTalk, Fri) says vaccinations against diseases such as whooping cough should be compulsory.She was writing after an outbreak of the disease that left five babies dead. You can’t make vaccinations compulsory.People have good reasons for not being vaccinated and that should be respected. As a vegan I chose not to be vaccinated on ethical and moral grounds.There is a case to be made that most diseases such as Covid-19 are caused by mankind farming animals for food.Mankind then has the audacity to test vaccines on animals to cure these diseases.Not only is mankind contributing massively to climate change by using animals for food, he is sowing severe problems for his own health not to mention cruelty to animals. On these grounds I feel I have the right not to be vaccinated and wouldn’t get vaccinated even if compulsory. Robin, Glasgow']"
325,"['Bombs rip through Rafah’s skies. Buildings where civilians shelter turn into rubble, burying them inside. The stench of death and the dust of pulverised concrete fill the air.', 'This is the hell engulfing the Palestinian city of Rafah, southwest of Gaza and bordering Egypt. But in another world, it could be taking place in Brighton.', 'There are no airstrikes on the seaside resort in East Sussex, about 50 miles south of London, but in a hypothetical scenario, what if the same kind of war came to Britain’s door?', 'Rafah and Brighton may be some 2,209 miles apart, but the two cities are not too dissimilar.', 'Both are located near the coast. Rafah is a city in the southern Gaza Strip, near the Mediterranean Sea. Then, there is Brighton, overlooking the English Channel.', 'Tourists flock to Brighton all summer for its pebble stone beach and picturesque pier. Before Israel’s war on Gaza, Rafah had welcomed a fair share of visitors to its shores for the view, too.', 'Days after the ICJ orders Israel to halt its military offensive in Rafah, the Israeli Government bombs displaced people living in tents. Innocent men, women & children dismembered and burnt alive.Bear witness to the images and ask yourself, are you on the right side of history? https://t.co/2RzplcBK0t', 'And both have great historical significance. Brighton – dating back to the ancient Roman era – and Rafah, with archaeological treasures that can be traced back thousands of years.', 'Brighton, one of the two main areas of the city of Brighton and Hove, is 32 square miles, while the Palestinian enclave is just slightly smaller, at 25 square miles.', 'Until seven months ago, Brighton and Hove and Rafah had similar populations – around 250,000.', 'But since Israel began its onslaught on the territory after the Hamas attacks of 7 October, more than one million displaced people have crammed into Rafah to escape the terror, making it one of the most densely populated places on Earth.', 'Haim Bresheeth-Žabner, a Jewish Israeli academic, comes from a family of Holocaust survivors.', 'Originally from a town named Ostrowiec Kieliecky, in southern Poland, every member of his extended family was transported to Treblinka and killed in the death camp by the end of 1943.', 'Telling the story of how his parents survived World War II, the SOAS Professor\xa0of Film Studies said: ‘My parents continued as slave labour in the Ghetto and during June 1944, the SS (Hitler’s notorious elite Nazi guards) cleared the ghetto and dispatched all survivors to Auschwitz.', '‘My parents worked there until January 1945, when the Nazis closed Auschwitz as the Soviet Army came near.’\xa0', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'Prof Bresheeth-Žabner was himself born in a refugee camp near Rome in 1946, where he lived with his parents for three years.', 'He added: ‘[We lived there] until June 1948, when they arrived in Palestine/Israel, at the start of the war. My father refused to be drafted as he would not use arms, and was placed in jail.', '‘My mother and I were then placed in a large British jail which had been serving for the survivors from Europe’s death camps.’\xa0']"
326,"['Gary Lineker has been accused of sharing an anti-Israel post which may be in breach of the BBC’s election rules.', 'The Match of the Day star, 63, has previously been in hot water over his posts on X, and after the war in Gaza erupted in October, shared a video accusing Israel of ‘textbook genocide’.', 'He has now liked a social media post which said only a ‘f***ed up species’ could fail to condemn Israel’s ‘abhorrent’ actions.', 'This comes after 274 Palestinian people were killed as a special forces mission rescued four hostages.', 'According to reports, Lineker reshared a post without comment on X which shared a video of causalities in a hospital in Deir al-Balah, following an alleged Israeli strike on a refugee camp.', 'X user @JimMFelton shared the video and wrote: ‘What kind of f***ed up species can’t look at endless scenes like this and collectively agree what Israel is doing is abhorrent.’', 'It is said Lineker did not comment on anything and has since taken down his share of the post, but has still liked Felton’s comment.']"
328,"['Every time I step into a hospital in Gaza, I witness unspeakable atrocities and the most horrendous injuries a human can think of.', 'Like the time I was standing next to a resuscitation room in Al-Aqsa Hospital where doctors sedated a nine-year-old child to ease his suffering as he died.', 'His mother’s screams echoed throughout the building. They still echo in my nightmares.', 'Since the start of Israel’s military bombardment on Gaza in October, I have been working with my colleagues at Medical Aid for Palestinians (MAP) to support our emergency response. Every task is met with its own set of challenges, such as impassable roads or the constant threat of bombing.', 'But living here has never been easy.', 'I was born in Saudi Arabia to Palestinian parents, but we moved to Gaza when I was 10.', 'I led a relatively decent life, despite Israel’s occupation and blockade, which routinely caused shortages of water, electricity, medical care, and freedom of movement. This blockade hangs like a shadow over everyone’s work, lives and passions.', 'Gaza still felt like a place of opportunity though, where you could put in effort and make a somewhat normal life happen with an education, career, relationships and some travel if you were lucky. I have been fortunate to visit other parts of the Middle East, the US and the UK.', 'After earning my Master’s degree at Durham University, I returned home in 2022 and joined MAP.', 'My work involves advocating for Palestinians’ rights to health and dignity – including visiting our projects, recording stories, presenting research, or talking to journalists and partners.', 'At the start of October last year, my life seemed settled. I even adopted a cat that I called Beasty.', 'But on the seventh day of that month, the current war began, and forced me to become a rapid response humanitarian.', 'My days are now spent delivering much-needed assistance to our communities. This ranges from distributing hygiene kits, clothes, mattresses, blankets, food, and medical supplies to providing shelter, medical needs, and support to displaced families.', 'Our water tanks are empty, and the thought of another day without a drop of water to drink weighs heavily on my mind.', 'Most terrifying of all is the ever-present fear of death. To date, more than 38,000 Palestinians have been killed by the Israeli military, according to the health ministry. In fact, the true death toll could be more than 186,000 people, according to correspondence recently published in the journal The Lancet.', 'For more information about Medical Aid for Palestinians (MAP), visit their website here.', 'Two of my uncles and 13 of my cousins have been killed. Three of them are still buried under the rubble.', '\n\n \nFollow us to receive the latest news updates from Metro (Picture: Getty Images)\n\n', 'Metro’s on Whatsapp! Join our community for breaking news and juicy stories.', 'One uncle died with his arms wrapped around his four-year-old son, protecting him from shrapnel that hit their car following an Israeli military airstrike nearby.', 'The weight of this loss is immeasurable. My uncle did not just leave behind memories, but the responsibility of six young children for our grieving family to protect.', 'As I was writing this, I received sad news that a cousin in Rafah was killed by a drone missile while searching for bread.', 'We were never able to properly mourn any of them or have a funeral. We’re just lucky to be able to bury some of them, or at least bury body parts', 'One of my war rituals has been keeping a bottle of water within reach while sleeping, which will offer a lifeline if I’m trapped under rubble. There are more than 10,000 people reported missing, many under rubble in Gaza.', 'Until recently I was in Rafah, which had been designated a ‘safe zone’, but then we were forced to move again due to the most recent invasion.', 'Every day, I never know if I will return home when I go to work. But once I’m back, I wonder if I will be killed or injured in my sleep.\xa0', 'On another day when I was at Al-Aqsa Hospital, we heard a huge bombardment nearby.', 'Ten minutes later, the emergency department was full of patients. There were not enough beds for the enormous number of injuries, so many wounded people were on the floor waiting their turn to be examined.', 'I clearly remember an old woman, wrapped in a blanket and laying on the floor. Her face was covered in blood, but her eyes were wide open and for one solitary second, we exchanged eye contact. I left the department trying to catch a breath.', 'With me every step of the way has been my cat, Beasty. She has become a survivor, like us.', 'Sometimes I haven’t had enough food to give her. Despite this, whenever I approach her, Beasty immediately flips onto her back for me to rub her belly.', 'It’s like she can sense my mental state, always offering comfort and companionship when I need it most. I have needed a lot of comforting through such difficult times.', 'I haven’t seen my sister or nephews in months, and I really miss them.\xa0', 'I also really worry about my mother who requires medical support for a chronic condition, support which isn’t available anywhere. There have been times when she wasn’t able to walk on her leg because of her condition.', 'The international community needs to know that what is happening in Gaza is not a recent occurrence; it has been ongoing since 1948 when more than 700,000 Palestinians were expelled from or fled their homes at the hands of militias during the creation of the state of Israel. We call this the Nakba, which means ‘catastrophe’.', 'The people of Gaza have endured decades of displacement, oppression, blockade, and violence. I want the world to uphold international law, bring about a ceasefire and end the occupation of Palestine.', 'Our life-saving humanitarian work depends on the safe, unhindered, movement of aid supplies and workers – which we do not have in Gaza.\xa0', 'For example, in January a team of our UK doctors and staff were staying in a house in Al-Mawasi that the Israeli army had agreed with us was in a designated ‘safe zone’. The house was later destroyed by an Israeli military airstrike.', 'Thankfully everyone survived, but other humanitarians in Gaza have not been so lucky.', 'We have lost so much in this latest war – but hopefully not forever. I hope we will survive this and rebuild Gaza for the sake of our children.', 'So many close friends and loved ones have been killed.', 'Will it be my turn tomorrow? Only time will tell.', 'Until then, I’m going to keep fighting to stay alive and trying to provide aid. And take care of Beasty as best I can, too.']"
329,"['A father-of-seven is facing a triple murder charge after he ‘barricaded’ the doors to his home and ‘began a fire’ with his children inside. ', 'Neighbours in the Sydney Suburb of Lalor Park woke up to see children climbing out of the windows and saying their dad had ‘tried to kill them’.', 'Four children escaped, but three are dead – with emergency services unable to save the youngsters.', 'A five-month-old baby girl and two boys – aged two and six – died after being taken to hospital.', 'The children’s mother, 28, survived the blaze, with cops now believing the father, 29, intentionally sparked the fire.', 'One neighbour told BBC that she blames herself for the tragedy: ‘We feel ashamed. We didn’t know there was a baby inside.’', 'New South Wales DS Daniel Doherty said: ‘Police will allege this man is solely responsible for setting fires inside the premises.', '‘Out of these tragic circumstances we see that good people rise to the surface and they’re getting as much assistance as they can.’', 'Tributes have been left near the scene, with bouquets of flowers laid on the ground and the community holding a vigil this week. ', 'NSW Police Acting Superintendent Jason Pietruszka added: ”It’s devastating, there’s no other word for it. It’s devastating for the community, the other kids who go to school with the children.’', 'The surviving children and their mother will make a full recovery, authorities said.', 'The father is in custody after being refused bail. He’s set to appear in front of a local court on September 6. ']"
331,"['As 16-year-old Kaoussar ran for her life, her family got separated.', 'Losing her father and two brothers in the chaos, Kaoussar was left with her mother, grandmother and heavily pregnant aunt – all running from strangers trying to kill them.', 'Then, when the attackers caught up with them, they killed her mother.\xa0', 'Kaoussar wanted to stay with her, but her grandma and aunt dragged her from her mother’s body. Heartbroken and traumatised, they had no choice but to leave her body on the side of the road and continue their desperate journey.', 'To complicate matters – after many hours of running – her aunt gave birth in the bushes to the sound of gunfire. There was no medical assistance, but Kaoussar’s grandmother and other women fleeing the violence were able to help deliver the baby.', 'Kaoussar’s story is shocking, but it is not unique. This is just one account from over 5million children – approximately the entire population of Ireland – who have been made homeless by the ongoing conflict in Sudan.', 'In fact, today marks 500 days since the war began.', 'Fighting erupted on April 15, 2023 and is being fought largely between two rival factions for control of the country – the Sudanese Armed Forces and the Rapid Support Forces.\xa0', 'Sudan now faces one of the world’s most severe humanitarian catastrophes.\xa0', 'Children and families are facing horrific daily violence with thousands already killed, while a complete collapse of healthcare infrastructure and Sudan’s food supply mean people have begun to die from preventable diseases and hunger.\u202f', 'What’s particularly alarming for aid workers such as myself is that the crisis is also forcing unprecedented numbers of children into extreme hunger.\xa0', 'Earlier this month, the UN-backed IPC reported\u202ffamine conditions\u202fin Sudan’s North Darfur region, and there is a growing risk that famine could soon be widespread across the country.', 'This means Sudan is now experiencing one of the most critical hunger crises of the millennium, and certainly the worst I have witnessed in my 28 years as an aid worker.\xa0', 'The evidence is irrefutable: the conflict in Sudan is starving children to death. These children urgently need support.', 'That’s why Plan International is working in Sudan and across neighbouring countries to supply food, nutrition and emergency shelter. We are also providing child-friendly spaces where Sudanese children can receive the support they need and continue to learn despite having lost their homes – and often so much more.\xa0', 'It has been heartbreaking for me and fellow aid workers to hear first-hand from so many children and families that have lost everything.', 'One colleague met 20-year-old Sarra, who crossed to Chad after spending 11 months trying to survive in Sudan’s severely overcrowded and under-resourced internal displacement camps. Her pregnant sister was killed when their group came under attack while attempting to flee the country.', 'Deeply traumatised, Sarra misses her sister and doesn’t understand why a young pregnant woman would ever be a target.', 'Life is desperate for children still in Sudan as well, like 14-year-old Angham. She told our staff members how her dream of becoming a doctor like her father has been shattered since losing her home.', 'She now sleeps – with her extended family – on the floor of a tiny office in a school. Like most Sudanese children, Angham has not been able to receive any education since the conflict began.', 'The colleagues I work with risk their lives every day to deliver aid, and we are determined to do all we can to save lives. However, the international community must do more for Sudan’s children.\xa0', 'Renewed diplomatic efforts towards an immediate ceasefire are essential, and pressure must be put on all parties to secure access for humanitarian aid, food and other basic supplies across all parts of the country.', 'A drastic upscaling of funding is required: current funding levels are woeful and will not prevent widespread famine. Seven months after launching, the UN-led\u202fSudan Humanitarian Response Plan\u202ffor this year is just over a third funded.', 'Plan International is therefore\u202fcalling on the new UK Government\u202fto immediately announce additional funding for the crisis to ensure aid is delivering for children, women and girls and to create safe and legal routes for those fleeing to seek protection.', 'To support children impacted by the Sudan crisis you can donate to Plan International UK’s Sudan appeal\u202fhere\u202fand sign our\u202fpetition\u202fcalling on the UK Government to act.', 'We will not let the world forget about Sudan because without immediate intervention, more children will starve to death. They will continue to be forced from their homes and see their parents and siblings killed. More children will experience unimaginable trauma and violence.\xa0', 'It has only taken 500 days for Sudan to become the world’s largest child displacement crisis, with approximately 10,000 children a day being forced from their homes.', 'This is what happened to Kaoussar.', 'Originally from Geneina city in Sudan’s West Darfur State, her family was initially forced from their home when fighting in Sudan erupted 500 days ago.', 'They found shelter in a camp near the city, but then unidentified attackers raided it and that’s when her mother was killed.', 'After the birth of her niece on the side of the road, Kaoussar, her grandmother, and her aunt walked on foot, eventually crossing into Chad three days later.', 'After spending four weeks in a temporary centre, they moved to a refugee camp – where she still lives today, over 15 months after arriving. Devastatingly, she still does not know where her father or brothers are.\xa0', 'Hundreds of thousands now call overcrowded camps like this home after fleeing the ongoing conflict in Sudan. The camp mainly shelters women and children, and access to clean water, food and sanitation here is severely limited.', 'Thankfully, Kaoussar can now go to school. She is a leader in the classroom and loves taking part in activities with her new friends.\xa0\xa0', 'But memories of her mother’s death and father’s disappearance cast a long shadow over her, making it difficult to move forward. Like all Sudanese children right now, her past is traumatic and future uncertain.\xa0\xa0', 'This is a critical humanitarian emergency. Children are already being killed and dying from hunger and related diseases, while the lives of millions more hang in the balance.', 'There can be no more delays. The time to act is now.\xa0']"
332,"['The war in Gaza had not yet begun when Mohammed Hamdona welcomed his daughter into the world.', 'Afaf, one, spent what little of her childhood she could have spent in the coastal enclave playing with construction sets and electronic toys. She was happy.']"
